CAPE TOWN - Controversial ANC MP Mervyn Dirks has joined calls for President Cyril Ramaphosa to take the country in his confidence about his stolen millions and the burglary at his Phala Phala farm in Limpopo. Dirks said  Ramaphosa's responses have left more questions than answers so far. On Monday, Dirks wrote an open letter to Ramaphosa about the robbery at his farm, where the President is also accused of failing to report a crime. Dirks said the Financial Intelligence Act prohibits the carrying or being in possession of cash in excess of R25 000 unless declared and for good cause. It's not the first time that Dirks has called out the President for allegedly failing to report an act of crime. Last year, Dirks complained to Parliament after Ramaphosa failed to report the misuse of state funds for ANC activities despite being aware. He said the performance of the President's spokesperson Vincent Magwenya was also underwhelming as he left more doubts instead of providing "cogent and persuasive responses". Meanwhile, DA leader John Steenhuisen said the President had no choice but to come clean. He added that Ramaphosa was facing a crisis of credibility and could not hide behind "procedural smokescreens" to avoid presenting South Africans with the full truth. The leader of the opposition says too many questions remain unanswered about the robbery at Ramaphosa's Limpopo farm - where millions of US dollars were reportedly stolen. Steenhuisen joined even members of the president's own party who have called on him to take the country in his confidence about the 2020 incident. "President Ramaphosa is facing a crisis of credibility, and he cannot simply hide behind procedural smoke screens to avoid presenting South Africans with the full truth of the money that was stolen from his farm and the subsequent cover-up. There is no aspect of any police or any other investigation that prevents him from taking the country into his confidence with a full honest account of the events." Steenhuisen said earlier that the DA to would be writing to the South African Revenue Service and the South African Reserve Bank over what he calls "Ramaphosa's mysterious US dollars".