JOHANNESBURG - Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula has revealed that the deadly crash that claimed the lives of 15 people in Tshwane last week was due to driver error. "The report concluded that driver error is the major contributing factor to the cause of the crash because the truck driver allowed his vehicle to veer off its original lane of travel onto the oncoming lane resulting in a head-on crash," he said. Mbalula added that the weather conditions on the day also contributed to the horrific accident. He released the preliminary report into the crash in Pretoria that left more than 40 people injured on Friday. Mbalula further mentioned that the Road Accident Fund would be assisting the affected families to process claims. "Since the advent of this gruesome accident, we relentlessly visited the bereaved families. We know that all the people who died were the only breadwinners in their families and they died while on their way to work to earn a living for their families. The hopes of many were dashed by the crash." On the early hours of the morning seven days ago on M17, the country experienced one of the most horrific road crashes between a bus and a truck. Fifteen (15) died on the scene and 37 others were rushed to hospital with varying degrees of injuries for urgent medical attention pic.twitter.com/4GPi1kkn1e  'NOBODY TO FACE CHARGES FOR FATAL TSHWANE CRASH THAT CLAIMED 15 LIVES' Mbalula said a preliminary report into the investigation of the fatal crash revealed that nobody would face charges of negligent driving - for now. The presiding officer in the matter, he added, was busy with an investigation that would produce a report after interviews with eyewitnesses. Mbalula said an inquest would be needed to investigate the accident. "The road was also found to be in fair condition and not likely to be a cause of contributory factor in the crash. A full mechanical investigation was conducted on both vehicles and confirmed that they were no mechanical defects or failures that contributed to the occurrence of the crash. It was found that both vehicles were in a roadworthy state," he explained. Mbalula described the crash as the most horrific accident he had ever seen.