JOHANNESBURG - Mandisa Maya said it’s disappointing that the last three appointments to the Constitutional Court were all men. She brought this to light when the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) interviewed her for the position of Deputy Chief Justice on Monday. This follows her nomination by President Cyril Ramaphosa earlier this year to succeed former Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo - who now holds the top spot as Chief Justice. The commission's Narend Singh asked Maya about gender transformation in the judiciary and the most recent appointments at the country’s apex court. "Well it’s quite disappointing … all I want to say is that, of course, we respect the president’s prerogative in making the appointments he does. But there are constitutional imperatives that still need to be observed." She said South Africa continued to lag behind other countries in terms of gender transformation. "South Africa, very disappointingly, with our lofty constitution - and all the fancy laws you in Parliament continue to churn out - South Africa remains, it lags far behind many countries even in the continent insofar as diversifying its judiciary is concerned." Maya said the JSC had an opportunity to advance the cause a little further. She added that if she were to be appointed as the Deputy Chief Justice her successor as the president of the Supreme Court of Appeal would have to be a woman. MAYA SLAMS JUDICIAL LEAKS Maya said judicial leaks are “an extremely serious problem”. Julius Malema about the problem of “leakages”. Malema pointed specifically to the recent Constitutional Court scandal in which it was alleged that the outcome of an application from suspended Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane was allegedly leaked before it was officially handed down. Maya said such leaks simply shouldn’t happen. "It’s an extremely serious problem that just should not happen. And I think I speak for all judges at least when I say we were just shocked especially by this last one affecting our Apex court. I mean these things never happened in the past. It’s a new phenomenon for us at least altogether."