   Despite our ever-changing laws and constitution, the LGBTQI+ community continues to live with unacceptable violence and discrimination. One of the oldest LGTBQI+ organisations in the country, OUT, says legal progress rarely goes hand in hand with social progress. OUT's director, Dawie Nel, was in conversation with Refilwe Moloto on Wednesday. There is a big gap between legal equality and social equality. South Africa is a very conservative country.  In 2016, OUT - which works to eradicate LGBTQI+ hate crimes and discrimination, conducted a survey with more than 2 000 LGBTQI+ respondents, where more than half reported to have suffered some sort of discrimination. Discrimination takes quite severe forms. People being raped, people being killed. It's quite a bleak picture.  The organisation also works to provide stigma-free HIV, sexual health and other services to people in the LGBTQI+ community, and for more information, you can have a look at their website. Scroll up and take a listen to the audio clip above. This article first appeared on CapeTalk : Big gap between legal and social equality of LGBTQI+ community - OUT   Despite our ever-changing laws and constitution, the LGBTQI+ community continues to live with unacceptable violence and discrimination. One of the oldest LGTBQI+ organisations in the country, OUT, says legal progress rarely goes hand in hand with social progress. OUT's director, Dawie Nel, was in conversation with Refilwe Moloto on Wednesday. There is a big gap between legal equality and social equality. South Africa is a very conservative country.  In 2016, OUT - which works to eradicate LGBTQI+ hate crimes and discrimination, conducted a survey with more than 2 000 LGBTQI+ respondents, where more than half reported to have suffered some sort of discrimination. Discrimination takes quite severe forms. People being raped, people being killed. It's quite a bleak picture.  The organisation also works to provide stigma-free HIV, sexual health and other services to people in the LGBTQI+ community, and for more information, you can have a look at their website. Scroll up and take a listen to the audio clip above. This article first appeared on CapeTalk : Big gap between legal and social equality of LGBTQI+ community - OUT