JOHANNESBURG - Kaizer Chiefs are eager to reclaim their glory days and the club has been working hard behind-the-scenes in transfer market to strengthen their first-team ahead of the news season. Along with the appointment of Arthur Zwane as the head coach, the club have bolstered their squad with the addition of four new players. Amakhosi have signed Dillan Solomons, Kamohelo Mahlatsi and Lehlogonolo George Matlou from Swallows FC while Siyethemba Sithebe arrives from AmaZulu. The quartet join Ashley Du Preez and Zitha Kwinika who moved from Stellenbosch. Player Updates Our new soldiers reported for duty today. We officially welcome Lehlogonolo Matlou to the Amakhosi Family after signing a 2 year contract. We look forward to working with you Khosi!#WelcomeMatlou #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/jrOg7RoO7g  Player Updates Our new soldiers reported for duty today. We officially welcome Kamohelo Mahlatsi to the Amakhosi Family after signing a 3 year contract. We look forward to working with you Khosi!#WelcomeMahlatsi #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/yyt76gLVcd  Player Updates Our new soldiers reported for duty today. We officially welcome Dillan Solomons to the Amakhosi Family on a 4 year deal. We look forward to working with you Khosi!#WelcomeSolomons #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/r5QAVtwMH6  Player UpdatesOur new soldiers reported for duty today. We officially welcome Siyethemba Sithebe to the Amakhosi Family after signing a 2 year contract. We look forward to working with you Khosi!#WelcomeSithebe #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/OieLhzNEVX  Player UpdatesOur new soldiers reported for duty today. We officially welcome Zitha Kwinika to the Amakhosi Family on a 3 year deal. We look forward to working with you Khosi!#WelcomeKwinika #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/z1c0HWWsuq  Player Updates Our new soldiers reported for duty today. We officially welcome Ashley Du Preez to the Amakhosi Family on a 3 year deal. We look forward to working with you Khosi!More info: https://t.co/ektYRGBARu#WelcomeDuPreez #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/2EaUjmfgbG  Meanwhile, Mduduzi Shabalala has been promoted from the club’s reserve team. Player Updates!Our new first team Glamour Boy Mduduzi Shabalala has signed a 3 year deal. We look forward to you working with the first team!#Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/DBoZ3FUFYp  Chiefs are desperate to get their hands on silverware. The club has experienced seven lean years since they last lifted a trophy. There is hope that the new additions will transform them into title contenders after finishing the 2021/22 season in fifth position on the DStv Premiership table. More player arrivals are expected before the transfer window closes. Preparations for the new season will get into full swing soon with players expected back this week for tests ahead of their preseason training.