JOHANNEBSURG - The largest union at Comair, Numsa, is expected to meet with the management of the airline operator on Thursday amid fears of a jobs bloodbath following the grounding of all its planes. Comair announced on Tuesday night the grounding of all Kulula and British Airways flights due to a liquidity crisis. Passengers were outraged after they were left stranded, especially because the company held a sale the day before. Comair said that while it was in talks with investors hoping to resume flights soon, there was still no indication of when its planes will be back in the air. Comair CEO Glenn Orsmond has denied that the airline deceived customers by having a sale with planes grounded thereafter. He argued that the sale was suspended as soon as management realised there was a liquidity crisis. Orsmond said there was a plan to help passengers: “We do not receive the cash until the flight has flown. Therefore, all the cash is available and the cash will be refunded.” Arrangements are also being made for British Airways passengers: “We are accommodating them on other airlines and we will be communicating with the passengers.” He said that the airline was battling high fuel prices and extremely tough financial conditions. Aviation analyst Phuthego Mojapele said that the aviation industry in South Africa was on a nosedive and Comair was but one of many airlines that had failed or were operating at the bare minimum. Mojapele said that they simply did not have the money to run operations. He said that the failures in the sector had a wide-reaching impact. "We’ve got SA Express, Mango, now Coomair not operating and SAA is operating but at a very small scale. There’s not going to be improvement in the industry because now you’re going to have a number of other entities other than the employees that are employed by Comair, also those that are supplying services to Comair, so those are the things that are going to continue wreaking havoc." Additional reporting by Masechaba Sefularo.