 The Stormers tackle Edinburgh on Saturday in a quarterfinal of the United Rugby Championship at Cape Town stadium. The Stormers ended their inaugural URC season in second place while Edinburgh finished seventh. Ticket sales are brisk, so a good crowd is expected, despite a forecast of cool, misty weather.    RELATED: Rassie Erasmus trolls World Rugby like the BOSS he is with epic 'water boy' plan  Refilwe Moloto interviewed Carl Lewis, Head of Content at bet.co.za. (scroll up to listen). SA Rugby has done really well this week…  officially inducted into the Heineken Cup, the Uefa Champions League of rugby…  The Cheetahs will be playing in the Challenge Cup, just a tier below Heineken Cup…  It [Heineken Cup] is going to be the world’s premier rugby competition, especially with us in it now… Three of our teams are involved in the quarterfinals of the United Rugby Championship…  This article first appeared on CapeTalk : 'Heineken Cup to be the world’s top competition, now that SA teams are in it' The Stormers tackle Edinburgh on Saturday in a quarterfinal of the United Rugby Championship at Cape Town stadium. The Stormers ended their inaugural URC season in second place while Edinburgh finished seventh. Ticket sales are brisk, so a good crowd is expected, despite a forecast of cool, misty weather.    RELATED: Rassie Erasmus trolls World Rugby like the BOSS he is with epic 'water boy' plan  Refilwe Moloto interviewed Carl Lewis, Head of Content at bet.co.za. (scroll up to listen). SA Rugby has done really well this week…  officially inducted into the Heineken Cup, the Uefa Champions League of rugby…  The Cheetahs will be playing in the Challenge Cup, just a tier below Heineken Cup…  It [Heineken Cup] is going to be the world’s premier rugby competition, especially with us in it now… Three of our teams are involved in the quarterfinals of the United Rugby Championship…  This article first appeared on CapeTalk : 'Heineken Cup to be the world’s top competition, now that SA teams are in it'