CAPE TOWN - Government on Tuesday said that it was not blind to the financial constraints facing consumers dealing with record fuel prices. Petrol went up by between R2.33 and R2.43 at midnight, while diesel increased by between R1.07 and R1.10 a litre. READ: New fuel prices announced for SA It would've been worse had government not extended the reduction in the general fuel levy. From 1 June to 6 July, fuel levy relief of R1.50 cents per litre will continue. But from 7 July to 2 August,  the relief will be limited to 75 cents per litre. However, this has no bearing on fuel pricing - that's calculated monthly and is informed by factors such as international crude oil prices and the exchange rate. The Mineral Resources and Energy Department's Robert Maake explained why fuel prices were skyrocketing this month: “The weaker rand against the US dollar contributed about R1 on all products and the higher oil prices led to higher prices of finished products.” The Democratic Alliance (DA)'s Kevin Mileham believes the extension shows how flexible, unnecessary and abuseable the fuel levy is. "The exorbitant new fuel price is nothing short of criminal. The government, which adds 33% to the price through taxes and levies is taxing South Africa into poverty. The knock-on effect of this increase will literally take food off the table of hundreds of thousands of people," he said. Government said that it will continue to monitor the impact of the Russia/Ukraine conflict and zero-COVID policies that continued to have an impact on energy and food prices. Meanwhile, the Automobile Association is relieved that the general fuel levy cut's been extended. "The fuel price increase is going to be affecting people in every country as well. We're not unique, certainly, and this is going to be hurting - people are going to be saving some money when they fill up their cars now but the real concern now is what impact these increases are going to have on other prices." The association's Layton Beard said that South Africans needed every bit of relief they could get. 'EVERYTHING IS EXPENSIVE' As motorists contend with massive petrol price increases, some South Africans say they feel like they are being held hostage by the government. Some say the petrol price hike will increase the financial burden on their households. “Especially for us poor people, we are going to struggle a lot. Everything is expensive - electricity, petrol, - we cannot survive,” one motorist said. Another said: “It is hard for us as Uber drivers.” Additional reporting by Nkosikhona Duma.