DURBAN - The Umvezo Traditional Council in the Eastern Cape has described the late Amapondo King Zanozuko Sigcau as someone who championed the fight against underdevelopment. The 47-year-old king was laid to laid on Tuesday. He passed away last month following a short illness - nearly three years after he took to the throne. Sigcau was hounoured with a Special Official Funeral Category 1 at the Ndimakude Great Palace in Flagstaff, in the Eastern Cape. The Presidency categorised Sigcau's funeral as such "as a mark of respect". Among those who paid their last respect to Sigcau was Umveo chief Mandal Mandela who said: "We were still wanting to see more of particularly in the plight of young people that we are seeing in rural areas as they were champions of fighting underdevelopment. "Ensuring that the is  job opportunities in rural areas." King Zanozuko Sigcau's funeral was almost disrupted over Monday's court ruling about the exact nature of the funeral proceedings. Some of the Amafaku Royal Family members and Prince Dumelani Sigcau filed an urgent court interdict on Monday - arguing they are the ones who should lead the funeral proceedings. But on Tuesday things took a different turn as the proceedings went ahead without their involvement. The body of the late King Zanozuko Sigcau has not even been interred yet but royal disputes are already playing out in the public eye. On Monday the Amafaku Royal Family and Prince Dumelani Sigcau filed urgent papers to interdict the funeral proceedings saying Prince Dumelani should lead the proceedings as the acting King. Prince Mbasa of Kimbili, cousin to the late King, questioned the manner of the proceedings. "If we do not present an opposing view there will be a misconception that we are in agreement with this mess that we are seeing here. The Royal family has a view and that view must be respected. There is a court order and all relevant people are aware of this, so please". At the same time the late King's mother has been handed over the Unweba - the lion skin usually worn by Kings. This signifies that she is now the acting regent to the throne.