JOHANNESBURG - Tensions are now high on Tuesday as protesting e-hailing drivers attack an unmarked police vehicle that they believed was one of their own transporting a passenger in Pretoria. The officer, who refused to give his name, said he was trying to protect himself when he was assaulted and disarmed. “They were so violent and that’s why I wanted to take out my firearm just to protect myself. But they took it and I was assaulted very badly. Police have now arrived near the Union Buildings where the drivers handed over their memorandum of demands. Two men - one of them matching the description given by the injured off-duty policeman - have been taken into police custody. FAIR REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT The drivers said Department of Trade and Industry  must create a fair regulatory environment and guard against the creation of app monopolies in the sector. The group brought traffic to a standstill in the Pretoria CBD on Tuesday afternoon as they handed over a memorandum of demands, calling on government to ensure companies in the industry are held accountable. Operators on the Uber, Bolt, Didi and in driver platforms said they would strike for three days over exploitation and unfair business practice. E-hailing taxi operators accused companies in the sector of competing at the expense of drivers, saying they encroached on the transport industry while masquerading as software companies. The memorandum of demands was received by the chief of staff in the department. Scores of protesters, hooting as they drive, were making their way to the Union Buildings where they want the attention of President Cyril Ramaphosa and Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula. March convener Melithemba Mnguni said the law must be changed. “E-hailing app companies have found a loophole in our institutions, whereby they present themselves as a software company where they connect riders and drivers. Unfortunately, if you look deeper in how they operate, they are transport companies and they are also employers, but they present them otherwise to avoid taking responsibility and accountability.” Marshalls are stopping e hailing drivers who are working.  @AbigailJavier_ pic.twitter.com/HBSmuGUzwr  MEDIATION PROCESS Meanwhile, Gauteng Transport MEC Jacob Mamabolo has undertaken to speed up the mediation process between e-hailing drivers and their business partners. Mamabolo said the process, which began when drivers first approached him for government’s intervention last year, would be concluded in three months. He met with representatives ahead of their strike. Mamabolo said a mediator was appointed last year to address the ongoing disputes between e-hailing drivers and their tech business partners. He said while engagements wouldn't yield overnight results, he was committed to facilitating the conclusion of the process. "We have said to them the mediation is proceeding, we have to wrap it up in three months and release a report and recommendations on what needs to be done." However, the MEC said they would not wait until after the conclusion of the mediation process to act on what he called quick wins or matters of immediate pressure. Mamabolo said he would hold another round of meetings with drivers this week. Drivers have arrived at DTI where they will hand over a memorandum of demands. pic.twitter.com/NwyThnPi7y  Drivers have arrived at Union Buildings. pic.twitter.com/OZNEFhJGoe  #uberstrike An eyewitness says that the police officer pulled out his gun first when he was asked for proof that he was the police. He says Nobody was trying to shoot [the officer]. @AbigailJavier_ pic.twitter.com/YM7okmhklO 