JOHANNESBURG - An organisation representing e-hailing drivers has assured the public that its three-day shutdown will be peaceful and that operators who choose not to take part will not be punished for it. E-hailing platforms including Bolt, InDriver, DiDi and Uber could experience major disruptions to services from Tuesday, while several roads across Gauteng are expected to close as drivers call for end to the unregulated industry. They say they're battling to survive in light of rising petrol costs, poor safety measures and growing tensions between competitors. ALSO READ: SA's e-hailing drivers promise shutdown of major routes and services PPTA urges government to regulate e-hailing sector Drivers taking part in the three-day protest will convene in Pretoria to hand over a memorandum at the Union Buildings. On Wednesday, the demonstration will head to the offices of Gauteng Transport MEC Jacob Mamabolo. The final day of the strike action will be Thursday, when all e-hailing services will be shut down to prevent the companies from generating any income. The founder of private Public Transport Association Vhatuka Mbelengwa has urged residents to support the mass action. “This is not just an e-hailing problem, it’s a societal problem. We hope that people will advocate their voice and strength to challenge government and the industry.” The strike comes after growing calls for e-hailing platforms to prioritise safety and root out criminals fronting as drivers. DRIVER SLAM MAMABOLO E-hailing drivers operating in Gauteng have slammed Mamabolo for threatening to get a court indict to stop their planned national shutdown. The drivers said they were not backing down and have accused the government of empowering companies to freely exploit those working in the industry. “Every step we take, we need petrol; we are nothing without petrol and there is no alternative to that. We are not lawyers, we are not in the industry to fight so that is why I feel like they always ignore us because they know that our strike is just going to be a day or two and at the end of the day, we still need to finance vehicles, ” one driver said. Drivers are pleading with government to regulate the industry to ensure fair pricing, accountability, and proper vetting of drivers. “The biggest issue we have is the commission for the drivers,” another driver said. Mamabolo has cautioned the drivers against violence, intimidation and leaving destitute commuters stranded.