KYIV - Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky warned on Sunday that Russian forces were preparing to shell Odessa, a historic port city on the Black Sea coast. "They are preparing to bomb Odessa. Odessa!" he declared, in a video address. "Russians have always come to Odessa. They have always felt only warmth in Odessa. Only sincerity. And now what? Bombs against Odessa? Artillery against Odessa? Missiles against Odessa?" he demanded. "It will be a war crime. It will be a historical crime." Russian forces have made progress in southern Ukraine since their 24 February invasion, overrunning the city of Kherson and besieging the port of Mariupol, but Odessa has so far been largely spared. Almost a million people live in Odessa, a cosmopolitan harbour on Ukraine's southern coast with both Ukrainian and Russian speakers and Bulgarian and Jewish minorities. The Russian advance from occupied Crimea has in part turned east to link up with Russian-backed separatists and to seize the Azov Sea port of Mariupol. But another part of the force has also headed west to Kherson, on the road towards Odessa. The city is also close to the Moldovan border and the Russian-occupied region of Transnistria. During the first 11 days of the conflict, Russian forces from Belarus have also advanced on the capital Kyiv from the northwest and northeast, while another group bombarded the northern city of Kharkiv. Several cities have been bombed and shelled and the UN estimates that more than a million civilians have been driven from their homes by the fighting. 'FASTEST GROWING REFUGEE' CRISIS SINCE WWII The number of people fleeing has topped 1.5 million, making it Europe's fastest growing refugee crisis since World War II, the United Nations said on Sunday. "More than 1.5 million refugees from Ukraine have crossed into neighbouring countries in 10 days," the UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grande tweeted. The UN described the outflow as "the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II". On Saturday it had reported that nearly 1.37 million refugees had fled. The director-general of the World Health Organization (WHO), Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, also expressed grave concern at the worsening humanitarian situation. "@WHO has confirmed several attacks on health care in #Ukraine, causing multiple deaths and injuries. Additional reports are being investigated," Tedros tweeted. "Attacks on healthcare facilities or workers breach medical neutrality and are violations of international humanitarian law." .@WHO has confirmed several attacks on health care in #Ukraine, causing multiple deaths and injuries. Additional reports are being investigated. Attacks on healthcare facilities or workers breach medical neutrality and are violations of international humanitarian law. #NotATarget https://t.co/Wdc2jeoHIB  The WHO said on Sunday it had deployed staff to Moldova, Poland and Romania "to scale up [the] response capacities of its country offices, including operations, engagement with partners and support to the [Ukrainian] government for the health response". The body said it had also mobilised logistics to set up an operational hub in neighbouring Poland and help secure land corridors "to facilitate rapid movement of supplies to affected populations". It added a second shipment of health supplies was on its way to Poland, following a first shipment on Thursday that included trauma and emergency health supplies. The WHO had earlier condemned a slew of verified reports of attacks on health care in Ukraine. UN officials said they expected the wave of refugees to intensify further as the Russian army pressed its offensive, particularly toward the Ukranian capital Kyiv. Since Russia invaded, a total of 922,400 people have fled Ukraine to Poland, Polish border guards said on Sunday. Hungary, Moldova, Romanian and Slovakia have also seen Ukrainian refugees arrive.