KYIV - Here are the latest developments in Russia's war in Ukraine: RUSSIA COULD TAKE 'FULL CONTROL' As Russian forces surround several Ukrainian cities Moscow warns it could place them under the Kremlin's "full control". A Kremlin spokesperson says that Russian forces have so far held off on a full-scale onslaught on large cities "because the civilian losses would be large" but that Moscow "does not rule out the possibility of putting large cities under its full control". FOURTH ROUND OF TALKS The warning comes as a fourth round of talks between Ukraine and Russia get underway via videoconference. Russian officials describe the talks as "hard" as the two sides trade accusations over civilian deaths. STRIKE HITS KYIV APARTMENTS One person is killed and 12 others injured after an air strike on a residential building in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, which has been bracing for a major offensive. The toll was revised down from an earlier figure of two dead. CHINA HIT BACK OVER AID CLAIM China accuses Washington of spreading "disinformation" over Beijing's role in the Ukraine conflict, without directly addressing reports in US media that Russia is seeking Chinese military and economic aid. Washington has warned Beijing against helping Russia evade sanctions. The Chinese embassy in Washington DC says it has no knowledge of the requests. CHERNOBYL WITHOUT POWER AGAIN Ukraine says the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, the site of the world's worst nuclear disaster in 1986, has lost power for the second time since falling into Russian hands at the start of the invasion. '16 DEAD' IN ATTACK ON REBEL-HELD REGION Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine claim that a missile strike by Ukrainian forces on their de facto capital Donetsk has left at least 16 people dead, including children. A rebel leader tells Russian TV the victims were people waiting at an ATM and at a bus stop. AFP has no way of independently verifying the deaths. MOSCOW SAYS WEST WANTS 'ARTIFICIAL DEFAULT' Russia's finance ministry accuses foreign countries of trying to force the country into an "artificial default" through unprecedented sanctions. Moscow says it will meet its debt obligations but warned it could make repayments in rubles, rather than the currency of issue. BLACK SEA BLOCKADE Britain's defence ministry says Russia has established a naval blockade on the Black Sea coast, "effectively isolating Ukraine from international maritime trade". "Russian naval forces are also continuing to conduct missile strikes against targets throughout Ukraine," it says. NEARLY 2,200 KILLED IN MARIUPOL Nearly 2,200 residents of Ukraine's besieged city of Mariupol have been killed since hostilities began, the local authorities say. Mariupol faces "a worst-case scenario" if the warring parties do not urgently reach a "concrete humanitarian agreement", the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) warns. ZELENSKY WARNS NATO Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warns NATO that its members could come under Russian attack if they do not act to impose a no-fly zone over his country. He warns it is "only a matter of time" before Russian rockets hit NATO territory, a day after 35 people were killed in Russian air strikes on a military training ground outside Lviv, near the Polish border. CHECHEN LEADER SAYS IN UKRAINE Chechen strongman Ramzan Kadyrov says he is in Ukraine's Hostomel, an airfield near Kyiv captured by Russian forces early in their invasion. The Chechen former rebel-turned-Moscow-ally, who has been accused of numerous abuses, calls on Ukraine to surrender "or you will be finished". US JOURNALIST KILLED A US journalist is shot dead in Irpin, medics and witnesses say, becoming the first foreign reporter killed since Russia's invasion. Papers found on the reporter's body identify him as 50-year-old video documentary maker Brent Renaud. HUNDREDS HELD IN RUSSIA PROTESTS Russian police detain more than 800 people across 37 cities for protesting Moscow's "military operation" in Ukraine. Nearly 15,000 people have reportedly been detained at rallies across the country since the invasion began 24 February. NEARLY 2.7 MILLION FLEE Almost 2.7 million people have fled the war in Ukraine, more than 100,000 of them in the past 24 hours, the UN says. More than half have gone to Poland.