WASHINGTON - US President Joe Biden on Friday vowed that Russia would pay a "severe price" if it used chemical weapons in Ukraine, while also pledging to avoid provoking Moscow into "World War III". Biden reacted after Russia accused Ukraine and the United States of developing biological and chemical weapons in what Western nations says is a ruse to lay the ground for Moscow's own possible use of them in the conflict. "I'm not going to speak about the intelligence, but Russia would play a severe price if they used chemicals," Biden said as he announced a raft of new sanctions against Moscow. ALSO READ:- Zelensky says European Union 'should do more' for Ukraine- 2.5 million people have now fled Ukraine: UN- Russian forces shell another Ukraine city, Kyiv a 'fortress' At the request of Russia, the UN Security Council is holding an emergency meeting on the alleged manufacture of biological weapons in Ukraine. Biden also moved on Friday to end normal trade relations with Russia, further racheting up pressure on President Vladimir Putin after the bloody invasion of Ukraine. The United States, like other Western nations, is sending millions of dollars of weapons such anti-aircraft and anti-tank missiles to Ukraine, as well as sharing intelligence. But Biden again underlined that US forces would not fight in Ukraine despite the desperate pleas of many Ukrainians. "We will not fight a war against Russia in Ukraine. Direct confrontation between NATO and Russia is World War III - something we must strive to prevent," Biden said. In 2018, Moscow accused the United States of secretly conducting biological weapons experiments in a laboratory in Georgia, another former Soviet republic that, like Ukraine, has ambitions to join NATO and the European Union. 'UNIMAGINABLE TRAGEDY’ The situation in Ukraine's port city Mariupol, encircled and under constant Russian shelling, is "desperate", a top Doctors Without Borders executive said on Friday, calling for immediate action to avoid "unimaginable tragedy". Hundreds of thousands of civilians remain trapped and under fire in Ukrainian cities following Russia's invasion on 24 February. The situation is especially dire in Mariupol, where for nearly two weeks, civilians have been desperately trying to flee Russian bombardment in a freezing city left without water or heating, and running out of food. "It's really quite desperate," said Stephen Cornish, head of the Doctors Without Borders (MSF) Swiss office and one of those heading the medical charity's Ukraine operation. "Hundreds of thousands of people ... are for all intents and purposes besieged," he told AFP in an interview. "Sieges are a medieval practice that have been outlawed by the modern rules of war for good reason." The regional military administration estimates 1,207 people have been killed in Mariupol alone, with many more bodies likely still under the debris. Read our full update  https://t.co/vTfQ9i4EqG  PROTECT CIVILIANS Cornish stressed that under international law, "civilians must be protected, they must be able to have their basic needs, food, water, medicine, and certainly kept outside of the conflict". "As we can see, not only in Mariupol, but with credible reports coming from Kharkiv and Dnipro and other areas, every effort is not being made to spare civilians," Cornish said. "We are really heading towards an unimaginable tragedy," he warned, insisting that "there is still time to avoid it, and we must see it avoided". MSF has more than 100 personnel in Ukraine, where it has been working to ensure a flow of medical supplies across the country, including to the frontlines. In some areas, Cornish said, the teams are able to work, respond and carry out assessments, including opening a mobile clinic Friday in the western city of Vinnytsia to treat displaced people. He said that perhaps the main challenge facing MSF teams on the ground was the large number of different areas being subjected to violence at the same time. "There are dozens of locations that need emergency medical response, and we're simply not yet in a position to be able to do that," Cornish said. 'TRULY SHOCKING' Providing medical assistance in the conflict can meanwhile be dangerous. There have been at least 30 attacks on health care facilities, ambulances and health personnel in Ukraine since the invasion began, according to the World Health Organization, causing 12 deaths and 34 injuries. One of those attacks - the shelling of a children's and maternity hospital in Mariupol on Wednesday - killed three people, including a child. That bombing, Cornish said, was "truly shocking to our conscience, to our humanity". "It is simply beyond the pale, and beyond words to understand how this can be allowed to happen in our times." MSF staff were not at the hospital, but a number of them and their family members are still in Mariupol, and have taken refuge in the charity's compound there. RESTORE DIGNITY, HUMANITY "Those, despite the horrendous conditions, are the lucky ones," Cornish said. "They still have some access to a generator, food and water. Others don't." While communications have been almost entirely down since 2 March in the city that is normally home to half a million people, the MSF staff are still able to charge cell phones and communicate thanks to the generator. "I can tell you we await those contacts with a lot of trepidation, and we're very relieved when we get news that they're still OK," Cornish said. The intense violence there means the MSF teams in Mariupol "are unable to continue assisting in the hospital facilities", he said. "This is simply not acceptable in modern day times," he said. "Everything must be done to ensure that we get back to a situation where there is some dignity and humanity."