JOHANNESBURG - Sentencing proceedings have been postponed to 1 April in the Johannesburg Magistrates Court where former social development minister Bathabile Dlamini has been found guilty of perjury on Wednesday. Magistrate Betty Khumalo said she was satisfied that Dlamini, in her written statement and oral testimony, gave false evidence under oath at an inquiry into Sassa, which was instituted by the Constitutional Court. The court prepared to hear arguments in mitigation and aggravation of sentence. Khumalo said the State successfully proved beyond reasonable doubt that Dlamini lied under oath during the proceedings at the inquiry into the Sassa grants debacle. The court found Dlamini knowingly gave false evidence about whether the controversially appointed workstreams at Sassa reported to her. It also found Dlamini’s sole witness, Sassa executive Zodwa Mvulane - who was the project leader for the workstreams - appeared to be loyal to the former minister and while she tried to testify in her defence, all evidence showed the workstreams did in fact report to Dlamini. Meanwhile, the State also brought up a previous fraud conviction in which Dlamini paid a R120,000 fine stemming from the abuse of parliamentary travel vouchers. Suspended ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule, Supra Mahumapelo, Carl Niehaus and Tony Yengeni are in the Joburg Magistrates Court for the perjury case against the President of ANC Womens League #BathabileDlamini. MS  #BathabileDlamini proceedings resume in a different courtroom. Magistrate Khumalo continues where she left off after she was interrupted by a tech error earlier. MS pic.twitter.com/dp68eUmxOd  #BathabileDlamini embraced by her supporters as she walked out of the courtroom. Dlaminis been found guilty of perjury. Her lawyer asked that she remain on warning after the judge said she should rightfully be taken to the cells. MS pic.twitter.com/g2JkN16R1V  #BathabileDlamini perjury matter has been postponed to 1 April 2022 for sentencing. MS  LAWYERS ASK FOR SUSPENDED SENTENCE Dlamini’s lawyers have asked for a suspended fine after she was found guilty of perjury. The State has, however, argued for direct imprisonment asking the court to take into consideration a previous fraud conviction against the former minister that relates to the Travelgate scandal in which Dlamini, and several other African National Congress MPs, were charged for abusing parliamentary travel vouchers. The State said the earlier conviction spoke to Dlamini's propensity to be dishonest. The National Prosecuting Authority’s Phindi Mjonondwana said they were arguing for a sentence that would send a strong message. “Should the court then decide that a fine is a suitable sentence, then it should be a hefty fine so that the sentence sends a message that members of the public service, especially those that hold higher offices, should conduct themselves in a way that promotes the rule of law.”