JOHANNESBURG/CAPE TOWN - Two South African students who've managed to flee Ukraine to Poland have described their journey as terrifying and horrible. Thembeka Mthombeni from Mpumalanga and Kelebogile Makoro from Pretoria are now in Poland staying with a South African family. Speaking on CapeTalk on Wednesday morning, Mthobeni described the escape from Kyiv to Poland following Russia’s invasion, where homes were destroyed and hundreds of lives lost,  as a “horrible” experience. “It was really stressful, and our bodies literally went into survival mode. That’s how bad it was. We managed to cross the border on Sunday. But the journey was really crazy; we experienced a lot of police brutality, racism. It was really a horrible experience,” Mthobeni said. Since Russia's move to wage war on Ukraine a week ago, the country has seen close to 700,000 people flee the country, including local Ukranians and African migrants. However, many African migrants have complained about being pushed to the sides and being ostracised while they also tried to cross borders at neighbouring European Union countries. Late last month, Clayson Monyela from the Department of International Relations tweeted that South Africans and other Africans were being treated badly at the Ukraine and Poland border. SA students & other Africans have been badly treated at the #Ukrain/Poland border.  Amb J Mngomezulu has driven from Warsaw (5 hours) to go deal with the matter, receive our nationals & offer further support.  Amb G Tsengiwe in Hungary is also attending to SANs on his side.  Makoro said that it was terrifying and dangerous trying to cross the border: “You hear sirens going off constantly, stampedes moving all in one direction. People are so scared that everyone is pushing each other. There is no order. Ukranians were usually prioritised compared to all the people of colour.” On Wednesday morning, 2 March 2022, Monyela tweeted that all South African students in Ukraine were safe and seeking refuge at various neighbouring countries and were in the process of being transported back to South Africa. An update in terms of numbers re: South Africans in the #Ukraine situation. 3 students landed in JHB this morning. More expected in the coming days. pic.twitter.com/vqz79iHjEu  In total,  students on our database in #Ukraine are 28. Amb Mngomezulu says 7 are now safely in Poland & 15 safely in Hungary. 4 are still being assisted to cross into Poland. 2 are in a town far from conflict zone (Closest to Russia). Theres a plan to assist. pic.twitter.com/W9oZL1DmGx  African Union and Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari condemned the treatment of Africans fleeing the country and called for the rest of the continent's leaders to ensure that their people in Ukraine found safety. Russian forces have landed in Ukraine's second-biggest city and triggered immediate clashes in the streets of Kharkiv, the military said. 'THE FIRST BOMB WENT OFF WHILE I WAS SLEEPING' Mthombeni recalls being woken up by her friend and roommate when the first bomb went off in the city of Kyiv:“My friend came to my room and asked if I had heard the bomb that just went off. The first thing we did was grab our documents and packed them in our backpacks. I quickly called my parents, who called their parents to inform them about the situation that was happening. We called the ambassador, but he said he was not aware of the bombing and then he told us to travel west.” LISTEN TO THE FULL INTERVIEW BELOW:  As the Ukraine continues to defy Russia’s attack, a number of explosions in Ukraine’s capital and Kharkiv, the country’s second-largest city, have been reported over the course of the seven days. On Tuesday morning, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tweeted that a TV tower in Kyiv was bombed, claiming the lives of five people. To the world: what is the point of saying never again for 80 years, if the world stays silent when a bomb drops on the same site of Babyn Yar? At least 5 killed. History repeating  The Ukranian president has sought help from the United States and United Kingdom, calling for "continued significant assistance in combating aggression. Together with partners we defend." Coordinated actions with  Prime Minister @BorisJohnson. Reported on the course of  defense and the latest crimes of Russia against the civilian population. We are grateful for  continued significant assistance in combating aggression. Together with partners we defend !  Meanwhile, Stellenbosch University's Palestinian Solidarity Forum took to the streets in the winelands on Tuesday saying victims of war in Ukraine deserves the same solidarity as those in occupied Palestine. T The group of students, residents and Ukrainians have called for the immediate withdraw of Russian troops. Forum head Shaneea Maharaj said they recognise the difference in how the Ukrainian struggle has been supported compared to others. “There is definitely a Eurocentric, biased with some level of white supremacy to this and of course, it’s because the faces of these people are white. If we look at comparatives; Libya, Iraq, Yemen and Palestine, it’s almost normalised the violence that they have faced. That is not to say we should stand in solidarity with the victims of the war on Ukraine.” Maharaj added that the injustices and fight for self-determination is similar in both occupied nations.“When Russia stops fighting, the war ends. If Ukraine stops fighting, they stop existing.” Additional reporting by Saya-Pierce Jones.