JOHANNESBURG - "It brings me great pleasure to announce that I have won against Rhodes University," said Yolanda Dyantyi on her Twitter page. It brings me GREAT pleasure to announce that I HAVE WON against Rhodes University. The appeal is upheld and the judgement has been set aside  GOD IS AMAZING Thank You @SERI_RightsSA Thank you to the support of the national and international community!!!  Dyantyi was expelled for life by Rhodes University for her alleged actions during a protest against rape culture on campus.The activist was charged with kidnapping, assault, insubordination, and defamation. This was in connection with what was called the 2016  #RUReferenceList protest. "This feels amazing, I'm lost for words I was not expecting the judgment today. This was a battle, I was fighting for the truth to be heard," said Dyantyi to Eyewitness News. Rhodes said in a statement it had noted that the court had remitted the matter back to the university for reconsideration. Rhodes University student heads to court to fight against life expulsion It's understood she was part of a group of female students who publicly identified four male counterparts suspected of rape and allegedly dragged those suspects out of their dorm rooms. “I never denied participating in a march protesting for the safety of women at Rhodes, I was against the accusations,” Dyantyi said  referring to the anti-rape demonstrations at the Grahamstown campus in April 2016. In a statement at the time of her expulsion, the Grahamstown university had said the two expulsions (Dyantyi and another student) were not related to the right to protest but that they’ve been sanctioned for committing acts of criminality and violating the rights and liberties of others. Rhodes Exclusions a Result of Criminality, No Student Excluded for Protesting pic.twitter.com/C4JUzchhch  “I have survived character assassination this journey has been a violent one. Thank you to everyone who has walked this journey with me. Thank you to Seri, my lawyers for fighting with me” she said. The disciplinary ruling had sparked an outcry on social media with some suggesting the ban is heavy-handed. This birthed #StandWithYolanda which was used by those who supported her. "I'm shaking. I was screaming so loud when I read the judgment. The securities came banging on my door thinking I'm in trouble/danger only to find it was a scream of shock and overwhelming joy. I'm truly amazed at this moment right now. I can't even describe," she tweeted. Dyantyi was in the third and final year of her BA degree double majoring in Politics & International Relations and Drama studies when she was expelled. Im shaking.. I was screaming so loud when I read the judgement the securities came bagging on my door thinking Im in trouble/danger kanti its a scream of shock and overwhelming joy. Im truly amazed at this moment rn I cant even describe!!#StandWithYolanda #YolandaRhodesVictory  “The SCA’s judgment confirms what Yolanda has been saying since November 2017. Yolanda feels heard and defended. At the time of her exclusion, Yolanda was two exams from finishing her degree. The exclusion meant that other Universities would not even consider enrolling her. Her registration with UNISA was only possible because of an intervention by respected activists who insisted that her life should not be derailed by the conviction. The impact of the conviction and sentence on her cannot be underestimated” said Nomzamo Zondo, Executive Director at Seri (Socio-economic rights institute of South Africa). Eyewitness News had asked Rhodes University for comment and they in turn released a statement that said they noted the judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeal handed down today in the case of Ms Yolanda Dyantyi. “The university has consistently held that the rule of law is the cornerstone of our democracy. Where there is no respect for the law, accountability is compromised alongside the protection of human rights, human dignity, and justice for all.” The judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeal remitted the matter back to Rhodes for reconsideration. “The university further notes that the court has remitted the matter back to the university for reconsideration, indicating that, should the university wish to start the disciplinary process anew, it must take place before another proctor.The matter has dragged on for too long. This has never been our wish. We will consider the guidance provided by the Court very carefully and determine a way forward accordingly”. Rhodes University notes SCA judgement in Yolanda Dyantyis applicationhttps://t.co/pPymhhNKCv 