JOHANNESBURG - The 13 unions affiliated to the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) say they were ready to defend the federation from factionalism and rogue elements seeking to destabilise it. The unions held a press briefing in Johannesburg on Friday where they called on the Saftu president Mac Chavalala to disclose the alleged constitutional and policy transgressions by its secretary general Zwelinzima Vavi. Chavalala wrote to Vavi, asking him to give reasons why he should not be suspended while his alleged misconduct is being investigated. Vavi and the unions have rejected the move. Vusi Ntshangase said as affiliates, they had told Vavi to disregard the notice of intention to suspend him. He said Chavalala had no authority to suspend Vavi or any other national office bearer. “We shall decisively deal with unprecedented, unlawful and unconstitutional conduct of Saftu president and his team in the normal Saftu executive committee meeting.” Ntshangase has assured members they’ll protect the federation: “We want to assure our members that Saftu is here to stay despite the efforts of rogue elements to derail our efforts to build an element of a worker-controlled Saftu.” Meanwhile, Vavi said he would give a full account to the national executive committee next week. #Saftus Secretary General Zwelinzima #Vavi yesterday rejected a decision to place him on precautionary suspension, pending an investigation into allegations of serious misconduct, as unlawful and incantational. MS  Ntshangase says #Saftu President Mac Chavalala overstepped his authority by wanting to suspend a fellow national office bearer. He says that responsibility rests with the NEC. MS  He says Chavalas conduct will be addressed at the NEC meeting which starts on 24 March. We shall decisively deal with the unprecedented, unlawful & unconstitutional conduct of the #Saftu President & his team in the normal NEC meeting next week MS  Vavi is accused of violating the federation’s constitution among others. It’s still unclear what exactly the transgression is. Ntshangase said political interference could not be ruled out: “So, this erroneous act by the president could be politically motivated for many reasons. It could be to change  the congress outcome, it could be to change the character of Saftu politically.” Ntshangase said there were ‘robust’ talks within Saftu to embrace the socialist revolutionary workers party that may have sparked political tensions within its rank.