DURBAN - Search and rescue teams in KwaZulu-Natal are spending their Freedom Day looking for those went missing when floods wreaked havoc in the parts of the province. It’s been days now and search operations are not giving up as teams are in Ntuzuma, north of Durban, looking for more victims. The sun is beating down in Durban and while many around the city might be spending their Freedom Day relaxing at home, search and rescue workers are hard at work looking for flood victims. On the Gobhogobho River, north of the city, there are about six men from the SAPS search and rescue unit, the SANDF and the COGTA disaster management unit as well as two police K9s. Eyewitness News had been walking with them for the about four hours as they look for two men who went missing there on Monday, 11 April - Sibusido Gwala and Lucky Mthembu. They've covered about 10 km, having started in Ntuzuma and now reached Kwamashu. but they haven't been able to locate them. It's exhausting work for these rescuers as they trudge through mud and climb over rocks, it's clear they're feeling it, but remarkably, they're not showing any sign of giving up. With the landslides, the mudslides and the houses collapsing, it might take months before we even hit the tip of the iceberg, says SAPS Durban Search and Rescue Units Warrant Officer Dave Steyn.  Bernadette Wicks/Eyewitness News pic.twitter.com/7GiTO3KF4P  The SAPS Durban Search and Rescue Unit has been hard at work looking for survivors of the #KZNFloods.  Bernadette Wicks/Eyewitness News pic.twitter.com/UjXyP1Zyuc  Gwala’s neighbour and friend, Sithembiso Ndlovu, was with him the night he disappeared. "We were sitting around here at the house around 11 pm, like having a good night. Suddenly, he wanted to go to the shop to buy something. That was when we last saw him because he tried to cross this river here. He didn’t make it. So, the river just took him down," said Ndlovu. The community has been searching for Gwala and for Mthembu themselves for the last two weeks.but to no avail. "After getting worried like that, we started [to look for him] as friends. I got a lot of friends of Sibusiso and then we started this search." Unfortunately, despite their efforts, which saw them trek for several kilometres through mud and debris, together with two police K9s, the search and rescue teams were unable to locate either of the missing men on Wednesday and the search continues. Ndlovu said the community will not give up and they too will carry on looking for the men until they find them.