DURBAN - As ANC members slowly stream into the Durban International Convention Centre, provincial leaders are meeting with the eThekwini ANC Youth League to reach a compromise on different lists submitted for the party's conference. On Friday, Eyewitness News reported that the convener and the coordinator of the regional youth league submitted different lists of its representatives to attend the 8th regional conference. Only 13 people from the league would be allowed to participate in the conference. Regional Convener of the ANC in eThekwini Kwazi Mshengu said the two young leaders failed to reach common ground after being directed to produce a single list overnight. “This morning [Saturday] we found out that they did not do that and officials have taken over the process of convening the RTT now to make sure the finalised this decision.” NYAWOSE VOICES SUPPORT FOR GUMEDE Thabani Nyawose, who's contesting corruption accused Zandile Gumede for the position of eThekwini ANC Chairperson, said his contender had every right to avail herself for the job even if she's stepped aside from the party. READ: Nyawose vows to bring stability to ANC eThekwini if elected as chair Nyawose said this regional conference had to sharpen ANC policies and for the party to reconnect with its lost base. The ANC shed support in this metro at last year's local government elections and relying on smaller parties to govern. Nyawose also weighed in on the contentious step aside resolution, expressing confidence in the ANC's handling of the 2017 resolution. He also said Gumede should be able to contest him without the resolution getting in her way.  REWRITE ITS STORY Some delegates at the long-awaited regional conference were looking beyond the leadership contest, hoping the new collective that gets elected would focus on rebuilding the organisation and giving young members more opportunities. READ: Renewal vs continuity: Nyawose and Gumede fight to control ANC in eThekwini eThekwini is one of the few remaining regions to hold regional conferences after which the province would have its own internal contest. It’s also the ANC's largest region in the country. It's suffered numerous setbacks over the years with the ANC disbanding its previous executive committee in 2019 and a sluggish showing at the local government polls last year. Many see the conference as an opportunity to rewrite its story in the ANC. Delegates representing around 70 out of the region’s more than 100 were expected to arrive in the coming hours. Gumede’s supporters have been preaching unity and continuity while Nyawose’s backers have called for renewal, rebuilding and uniting the region. The conference will close on Sunday.