JOHANNESBURG - The regional coordinator of Operation Dudula in Rustenburg said they were being labelled xenophobic when all they were doing was enacting their patriotism. The controversial anti-migrant group is launching its North West branch in Rustenburg on Wednesday. Dudula has targeted suspected drug dens, unregistered businesses and undocumented foreign nationals who they blame for the bulk of the country's socio-economic woes. Supporting #OperationDudula Goldenmiles Bhudu addresses marchers briefly as they prepare to head back to Olympia Park stadium. Revolutionaries we want maximum discipline, he tells them. The local interim leadership has been tasked with growing the movement in the province. MS pic.twitter.com/z7RHj35AtZ  WATCH: hooting in support of #OperationDudula march in Rustenburg, North West. Motorists we spoke to say they are tired of illegal immigrants but have no problem with documented migrants. MS pic.twitter.com/ebLVYkDlr4  Rollance Mabula said as an unemployed father living in Rustenburg, he'd decided to root out the rot in what he believed was the source of this community's problems. “We are having a problem of illegal immigrants occupying job positions that are supposed to be occupied by South Africans. How should I feel when I see people from out of this country coming to make our children prostitutes here?” And while some of the songs that are being sung use derogatory terms to refer to foreigners, Mabula said he and Operational Dudula were not xenophobic. “There is nothing like that, we do not have any problem with anybody who is in this country legally.” The regional coordinator said after the launch in Rustenburg, they would go to other parts of the province such as Brits in the Madibeng Local Municipality. BRANCH OPENING WELCOMEDOrganisations supporting Operation Dudula in the North West have welcomed its official launch in the province, saying they'd been led by the wrong people, who used the system to oppress them. One of them - the Greater Rustenburg Citizen's Forum - supports the anti-migrant group as they accuse foreign nationals of hijacking buildings and say law enforcement turned a blind eye. The group marched to the local taxi rank where messages of support were delivered before its national leadership tasked the newly formed branch of growing its structures across the North West. The Greater Rustenburg Citizens Forum's Tumisang Gama has lauded Dudula's national leadership for bringing the movement to the province. “Viva Operation Dudula ,viva! When we address issues of foreign nationals, we are being oppressed by the system. South Africans never stand up for South Africa.” He said they'd been failed by authorities who evicted them from mine houses but left illegal immigrants to occupy them without consequence. Earlier, Dudula’s Nhlanhla Lux Mohlauli said their mandate there was to protect the mining industry in Rustenburg, and the rest of the platinum belt. “In this country, we have got a problem of illegal mining, correct? When you have a pillar of our economy being taken over by illegal foreigners, that tells you that if it is not happening here, its actually on its way.” Earlier in the day, there was a scuffle that was quickly defused by marshals as demonstrators made their way back from the bus rank to Olympia Park Stadium.