PRETORIA - The legal teams for the men accused of killing football icon Senzo Meyiwa have sung in unison on the difficulties they have experienced in consulting with their clients. This as they have been preparing for their trial, which was set to begin on Monday morning in the Pretoria High Court. That has been delayed after lawyers for one of the accused requested a postponement, citing the inability to consult. The matter will resume on Tuesday for the trial to commence. Advocate Zandile Mshololo who is acting on behalf of Sifisokuhle Ntuli has bemoaned the State’s handling of the Meyiwa murder trial, saying the State violated his right to a fair trial by releasing crucial statements at the eleventh hour. As a result, she has not been able to consult with his client. "The Department of Correctional Services is giving us a lot of problems when it comes to consultationand for accused number five, your worship, if he can be kept in the court premises today I will be able to consult with him." Advocate Maelsela Teffo, who represents four of the accused, rose in support of Mshololo, saying he too had struggled to see his clients. "We are experiencing the same thing that accused number five is experiencing and we definitely don't see what is going to be different from today." While some of the men were held in prisons outside of Gauteng, arrangements have been made to have them accommodated at the Leeukop and Kgosi Mampuru prisons. Only one of the accused is detained at the Modderbee prison in Benoni. #SenzoMeyiwa All of the accused are now in court and proceedings will get underway soon. @motso_modise pic.twitter.com/gIywN2VDKf  A RIFT IN THE FAMILY AfriForum's Advocate Gerrie Nel said the delays in the investigation and the promises by politicians had created fertile ground for conspiracies, leading to a rift in Meyiwa's family. In 2019,  the Meyiwa family approached lobby group AfriForum for help in the investigation into his murder after investigations by the State had stagnated. After the men now being tried were identified, the group handed the matter over to the State. Nel said the delays had caused ructions within the Meyiwa family with some not convinced that the men who stand accused were really the perpetrators. "I have explained to my clients my view of what I have seen and that's all that one can do, look at the evidence then develop your view". Before court proceedings started, Meyiwa's cousin Nomalanga said they were relieved that trial was finally starting. They will now have to wait until Tuesday for the first witness to take the stand. #SenzoMeyiwa The Adv for Ntuli tells the court that she the state served them with additional statements just two weeks before trial. She says she could not consult with because he is being held in a prison in Kokstad which is far from her practice in Durban. @motso_modise 