JOHANNESBURG - On Sunday, the first episode of Showtime’s The First Lady premiered on the US television network. Centering on the political and private lives of three of the State’s most iconic First Ladies, the show stars Viola Davis as Michelle Obama, Michelle Pfeiffer as Betty Ford and Gillian Anderson as Elanor Roosevelt and Twitter has some thoughts. Receiving mixed to negative reviews, the anthology series has disappointing 43% on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes and the negative reception of the show seems to be echoed on Twitter where Davis’ portrayal of the State's  first black First Lady was dragged. Speaking to Entertainment Weekly’s latest Around The Table episode, Davis describes the role as nothing like she’s ever done before and despite claims otherwise, she claims that her portrayal of Obama was a “joy to play”. Though she had her fun, Twitter users had some choice words for her portrayal of one of the State’s most iconic first ladies, with some comparing her pout to a caricature rather than an award-winning performance. Here’s what they had to say. The fact that no one ever noticed this about Michelle Obama BUT Ms.Viola Davis dedicated her life to it 😭😭😭 https://t.co/EA7jYBxf4n  Michelle Obama did not purse her lips THAT much. What possessed Viola to think she should do that in every scene. I never thought I would see the day where Viola Davis gave a bad performance. pic.twitter.com/RNijmu0heU  How can we blame Viola Davis’ Michelle Obama portrayal on Queen Naija? pic.twitter.com/6LuOyQJQaZ  Michelle Obama watching Viola Davis play her:pic.twitter.com/7vlBhKRWlD  Viola, mother, gon head and put your phone on DND cause she calling https://t.co/5sjjezNbci  If I was Michelle, it would be on sight 😭😭 idgi why did Viola Davis accept the role if she clearly hated her?? https://t.co/UL8AAK7bG7  However, some came to Davis' defense. Just not for the role. You will forget Viola Davis’ performance as Michelle Obama, you will forget anything to do with her upper lip. You are getting very sleepy… pic.twitter.com/q1ci0xN8pK  y’all can make your little tweets about viola davis all you want but at the end of the day that’s my momma.  pic.twitter.com/A0abp54pio  Viola Davis looking at Twitter with her Michelle Obama biopic paycheck... pic.twitter.com/CeP9CQPleX  CLEAR THE SEARCHES viola davis talented viola davis amazing viola davis emmy winner viola davis golden globe winner pic.twitter.com/Nlpr8m4Z9D  WATCH: The First Lady (2022) Official Trailer  This article first appeared on 947 : Viola Davis as Michelle Obama: The pout that set Twitter ablaze