      South African-born billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk will fork out $44 billion (roughly R690 billion) to buy Twitter after reaching an agreement with the company on Monday. The deal has set social media alight with debate about which direction the platform could take under Musk's control. Twitter has been described as one of the most influential social media platforms on the planet. Tech guru and PlainSpeak co-founder, Alistair Fairweather, says Musk could make the platform demonstrably better, with the right team of experts. "On balance, it's probably good for the company and the platform", Fairweather tells CapeTalk. Musk, who has labelled himself as a “free speech absolutist”, has been vocal about wanting to make Twitter less regulated. Fairweather says that Musk is likely to bring back Donald Trump’s account and other infamous right-wingers who were suspended from the platform. However, he says the political right should not get excited prematurely. I hope that even my worst critics remain on Twitter, because that is what free speech means  As part of his proposed reforms, the billionaire businessman has also hinted that he wants to get rid of Twitter bots and open the platform's algorithm to be examined by the public. According to Fairweather, an open-source algorithm could create room for more suggestions on how to improve the platform while squashing conspiracy theories about "shadow bans" on the app. Yesss!!!  pic.twitter.com/0T9HzUHuh6  It [Twitter] could look very different, but not necessarily in a bad way... He's a very clever guy, he'll probably hire very clever people and he might to some real good in terms of improving the platform, removing bots, and all kinds of other good stuff.  The assumption by the political right is that he's going to bring back everyone from Donald Trump to various neoNazis. I think that's probably premature to assume... If I were a betting man, I'd say he probably will be back, it will be interesting to see.  I think he overpaid significantly, but he's got money to play with now... He's a bit like [Jeff]  Bezos now, he's buying toys!  He's a genius, however, people may despise and I think he could get some clever people in there and do some interesting things with the platform.  This article first appeared on CapeTalk : Twitter is Elon Musk's latest toy but he might actually make it better - expert