DURBAN - Prime minister to the Zulu nation Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi on Saturday said the dismissal of an application filed to halt nominated AmaZulu king Misuzulu from addressing the commemoration of the Isandlwana battle should be a wakeup call for those against him not to undermine his ascendency to the throne. This comes after the High Court in Pietermaritzburg dismissed with costs an application brought by some members of the royal household to prevent the nominated king from addressing the historic event celebration. Buthelezi spoke to members of the media upon arrival at the celebration venue at Nquthu in KwaZulu-Natal. He said the late king's brother Prince Mbonisi Zulu should learn from Saturday’s court ruling, adding that they have been undermining Misuzulu for too long. “I hope the penny has dropped, at last, as far as Prince Mbonisi and his cohorts are concerned because [they have been doing this] for too long.” Meanwhile, the House of traditional leaders in KwaZulu-Natal has called on the provincial legislature to give support to all Zulu royal hold events regardless of the current disputes over the succession. This was said by the leader of the House Inkosi Phathisizwe Chiliza during the commemoration of the battle of iIandlwana in Nquthu. During the event, Chiliza took to the podium and asked the speaker of the province's legislature Nontembeko Boyce that all the royal house events should continue be given supported. “We would like the provincial legislature to understand that the royal disputes are for the royal family. We would like all events of the king and the Zulu nation to be assisted and to be respected.” MISUZULU EXPRESSES GRATITUDE King Misuzulu has expressed gratitude to his supporters saying they give him hope and gravitas to continue the work of his father the late King Goodwill Zwelithini. The king thanked the hundreds of people who have stood by him amid the tensions and legal battles in the royal family. “Seeing that all of you are next to me and are not listening to who says what and that you know who your king is. I have to dedicate myself to you the Zulu nation.” He has also vowed that he will honour his father's legacy by leading the Zulu nation into the future while ensuring that the teachings and wishes that his father had are realised. He has also expressed his gratitude for the building of a new kraal meant for his traditional coronation and hopes that it will happen soon. The Pietermaritzburg High Court is yet to rule on an interdict previously filed to stop the coronation.