JOHANNESBURG - The family members of a North West woman who apparently confessed to masterminding the murders of her four family members, including her young brother and pregnant sister, said they weren’t willing to post bail for her. Onthatile Sebati and her co-accused, Tumelo and Kagiso Mokone, were granted R10,000 bail in the Brits Magistrates court on Wednesday afternoon under strict conditions. The matter was postponed to 30 March 2022. #MmakauMurders Onthatile Sebatis maternal uncle, Donald Brown, says the two families will meet to discuss a way forward following todays judgment. Sebati and her two co-accused, who allegedly killed her parents and two siblings, were granted bail of R10,000 each. MS pic.twitter.com/iuXRqSKFlm  Sebati’s family say they feel betrayed by her following revelations of how she plotted and carried out the murder of her family members and then kept the secret for nearly five years. Her paternal family, who have attended proceedings since December, were visibly angry following Wednesday’s court judgment, granting the three accused bail. Colley Ratlhagane is Sebati’s deceased father’s uncle: “On behalf of her paternal family, we’re not interested. From day one in 2016, she pretended to be the victim and only came out now.” Her maternal uncle said she came to him for money: “When the money ran out, she came to me and asked for some help for lights and food, without knowing that she is the person who has done all of this.” The gallery gasped when bail was set at 10 times more than what the applicants said they could afford. At the same time, all of the accused have been instructed to report to the nearest police station on Mondays and Fridays. Meanwhile, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) said it respected the court's decision to grant bail in this case. The family car was also taken on the day of the murders, where one the alleged triggerman's fingerprint was found. The NPA's Lumka Mahanjana said they had a strong case: “At this stage, we’re waiting for two evidence to be completed, which is the telephone recording and the DNA. So, we truly believe that as the State, we have a strong case. However, the court felt that the accused should be granted bail.”