LADYSMITH - At least 70 residents have been left homeless in Ladysmith, KwaZulu-Natal, after severe flooding. Local rivers including the Tugela have burst their banks, flooding the town's CBD. Businesses and some homes were flooded. Disaster Management teams have been dispatched. The Qedusizi Dam, which is the nearest dam to Ladysmith, is a contributing factor to the flooding situation in the area. Al-imdaad foundations Irshaad Jamaloodeen tells Eyewitness News that there is someone trapped in one of the houses in the area and they are going to try and rescue him/her, they say they have rescued several other people today. #LadysmithFloods pic.twitter.com/nQgzp5WZpQ  [IN PICTURES] #LadysmithFloods pic.twitter.com/ZV8B8QsGXX  Those who lost their homes have been evacuated to a community hall for safety. So far, there have not been any more incidents reported. Upon arrival in the area on Monday afternoon, Eyewitness News saw a number of businesses closed due to the situation. Uthukela District Mayor Inkosi Ntandoyesizwe Shabalala tells Eyewitness News that the dam was meant to reduce the flooding incase the Kliprivier bursts its banks, but failed. #ladysmithFloods pic.twitter.com/E9vafsApRI  [WATCH] Pt 2, Maboya says they would like to be assisted with houses because they were previously promised RDP houses. #ladysmithFloods pic.twitter.com/s6nkc0SHyg  Brenda Mazibuko raises fears of losing her job, she says they are only remembered during election campaigns but when they are in need no one comes with assistance besides NGOs. #ladysmithFloods pic.twitter.com/mSobQQ2Wnk  The uThukela District Municipality told Eyewitness News that the 70 are being provided with essentials. The municipality said with the help of NGOs, assistance was being brought. “There is a foundation called Al-Imdaad that donated some blankets and mattresses as well as food last night. In the morning, they were given breakfast, at lunch they got something and even tonight, we are going to feed them," said District Mayor iNkosi Ntandoyesizwe Shabalala.