DURBAN - Police Minister Bheki Cele said the inter-ministerial committee investigating politically motivated killings in KwaZulu-Natal had led to the arrest of 289 arrests since 2018. Cele briefed the media in Durban on Wednesday afternoon on the progress made in cases of political violence. He said the task team also revealed that the most affected parties were the African National Congress, Inkatha Freedom Party  and National Freedom Party. The minister said the motives were linked to intra-political conflicts with a few other cases linked to taxi violence and domestic related issues. However, he points to the number of arrests made by the tasks team as progress. "This is 32 more dockets compared to the last update in June 2021 with a 54% detection rate, 33% court rate and 63% conviction rate. Most of the new cases were reported before, during and after the local government election in November 2021." At the same time, by elections are taking place in some parts of the province as a results the of killing of some councillors. [IN PICTURES] Some members of the committee Chaired by the Police minister Bheki Cele. #PoliticalKillings @_NMabaso pic.twitter.com/96vvvMj48d  Minister Cele has expressed satisfaction with the work done by the team since its establishment. He said the arrest of hitman Fisokuhle Ntuli, who was recently sentenced to six life prison terms, was one indication that task team was working. He has also announced progress the cases of ANC councillors Musawenkosi Mchunu and Sindiso Magaqa, who were shot and killed in two separate incidents. “Progress on the murder case of Sindiso Magaqa is scheduled to get under way in July. So, at least we have a date now that this case will definitely take place.” Cele also said police were making progress in murder cases that rocked the province during last year’s 1 November polls but did not clarify. The team was formed on the recommendation of President Cyril Ramaphosa in 2018. Cele: progress made by the task team which has secured life sentences for 10 accused. Moreover, 22 accused have sentences ranging from 10-50 years handed down to them. 12 accused have been convicted for no more than 10 years and the remainder aregoing through the court processes 