JOHANNESBURG - The Constitutional Court has dismissed public sector trade union’s appeal application which wanted the government to be ordered to pay workers wage increases for 2020 as per a collective bargaining agreement agreed to in 2018. The apex court found that the agreement was invalid and unlawful cementing an earlier ruling of the Labour Appeal Court. The unions, including Nehawu, launched the original application after the government reneged on the agreement citing unaffordability due to constraints caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and other factors. The Constitutional Court said that the collective agreement comprised three main clauses with the last one regulating wage increases for the 2020/2021 financial year. (1/2) Judgment: There was non-compliance with regulations 78 and 79, therefore clause 3.3 of the collective agreement is invalid and unlawful.  (NEHAWU and Others v Minister of Public Service and Administration and Others) pic.twitter.com/T1KORKxGSb  It states that this clause expired on 31 March last year and the effect of the three clauses was that the allocated budget would have been exceeded by R30.2 billion, an excess amount not approved at all by any Act of Parliament. This agreement was signed by a majority of trade union representatives at the bargaining council and became binding on all parties. But the State suggested that this agreement was conditional on it implementing various cost-cutting measures, but admits that the unions refused to allow a clause to this effect to be included in the agreement. If the third clause were to be enforced, the amount available for service delivery in all its manifestations would be significantly reduced. The court said that compared to the state, the unions and their members could be said to have been “unjustifiably enriched”, they materially benefitted from what it calls the impugned collective agreement. It said this occurred at a time when the rest of the country’s workforce, including high-ranking public servants, cabinet and Parliament, had suffered salary cuts or freezes.