CAPE TOWN - Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo's chairing of the state capture inquiry has dominated questions being put to him at the Judicial Service Commission (JSC). Zondo is the fourth and final candidate to be interviewed before the JSC makes its recommendations to President Cyril Ramaphosa who would then decide who would be the country's new chief justice. READ: A chief justice should be someone of integrity, Zondo tells JSC Zondo's been asked about decisions he took during the inquiry and whether as chief justice he would get tied up in litigation flowing from its findings. He was also asked whether the two and a half years he had left to serve as a judge should not rule him out. Zondo told the JSC that he did not hesitate when asked to take on the state capture task, seeing it as his duty to the country, although he knew he would “make enemies”. READ: MALAIKA MAHLATSI: Black women still battle to enter spaces of power On getting tangled up in the legal challenges expected in response to the inquiry’s reports, Zondo said he might not oppose review applications as the reports could stand for themselves. “When you honourable members consider my candidacy, you should consider the question of my chairing the commission. I say so knowing that some criticised me, about how I chaired it, others liked how I did it. But I think either way, it is fair and it should be considered.” INFOGRAPHIC: Top 4 candidates shortlisted for chief justice The Judicial Service Commission is interviewing acting Constitutional Court Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, High Court Judge President Dunstan Mlambo, Constitutional Court Justice Mbuyiseli Madlanga and Supreme Court of Appeal President Mandisa Maya for the position of the Chief Justice of South Africa from 1 to 4 February 2022.  Zondo added that nothing should be read into the fact that the state capture commission had yet to publish its third report that would cover President Ramaphosa’s evidence. He said he would not hesitate to find against Ramaphosa if the evidence supported this. He also dismissed the claim he was biased in favour of the president as baseless, making it clear to the JSC that he would act without fear or favour. “You have got to do the job, make the findings you make, accept that you will make enemies - but also accept that you may make findings against anybody, including the president. If there is enough evidence against the president, that finding will be made.”