  Most people who have lived their lives surrounded by hunger and poverty, in dwindling towns and faded villages, in mining towns and edge of industrial cities find their daily struggles to survive too immediate and too pressing to be concerned about climate change and the environment, especially with climate champions always looking like they have never been really pressed hard by life. That coal-fire station and smoke-churning factory are usually what stand between the people and absolute poverty. Politicians who represent those constituencies, even when they are informed enough to know the dangers of environmental degradation and climate change, are always aware that food, shelter, schools and jobs are a priority in these working-class communities and any suggestion to scale down production to limit carbon emission or retrain workers for what look like dream jobs of the future always feels like a betrayal of the prevailing reality. A politician can do a lot to mitigate climate change but first, he must win the votes. Championing the most pressing needs of your constituency is how you win votes. Since the first industrial revolution, world economies have been built on coal and oil. Private companies and governments have invested huge amounts of money and resources to build infrastructure that will make extraction, mining, and transportation of coal and oil seamless and such investments have been growing over the centuries. The amount of resources needed to abandon this historic and highly resourced cause to a morally right one that has no equal amount of investment or time is near impossible. For most of society, climate change is just not at the top of their concern. Life is too immediate and too real to be frightened by a catastrophe that too many may or may not lay in the future. Infact, across the world there are many people who still think climate change is a hoax cooked up by nature-loving fanatics. To these people, climate change is a preoccupation of white kids and their "searching for meaning" parents who spend all their lives surfing and safaring and do not know anything about having and keeping a real job. There has therefore always been a contest between economic growth and jobs and all its energy needs on one hand and climate change with its consequences on the other. Wise leaders try to avoid this contest as a false choice. Instead of asking coal-fired plants to be closed down to curb greenhouse gas emissions, they choose to ask the same purely for energy efficiency and for those countries who dont have either coal or oil to also minimise their dependency on other countries for energy. These countries may therefore look for clean-coal technologies or nuclear power for efficiency than outright championing wind power and solar. Environmentalists, who never seem to appreciate that governing is about managing competing goals and politics itself is a contest of ideas, are always possessed by moral superiority, demanding an immediate end to the world's ever grinding machine, an immediate end to coal and oil drilling, because Armageddon is coming tomorrow. As lonely voices considered irrational at the fringes, environmentalists never have the numbers to support a politician that at least believes in climate change. It's difficult to do anything to curb climate change if you don't have the numbers for political power. THE REALITY OF CLIMATE CHANGE It is, however, when the harsh reality of climate change hits, flooding, drought, wildfires, diseases, making temporary shift homes knee-deep in water and factories closed down that even the reality of hunger and poverty seems to move to the back. You may not have that coal-fired plant or factory after all. It is then that people realise that it is a necessity if South Africa is to reduce its greenhouse emission to levels in line with its international commitment to cap our carbon emissions and protect the environment. Unfortunately, renewables (solar and windpipes) are still expensive and unreliable without the sun and wind and storage battery to store excess power. It is also important that South Africa must adopt strategies that have proven to work in other countries, such as "cap and trade". Government sets limits to how much greenhouse gases companies can emit. Those who exceed the limit pay a price. And those who don't can sell their differences to those who do. This opens a new market for trade but also encourages companies to be innovative in technology and energy efficiency. So, the transition from coal to renewable must happen if we are to protect ourselves and our infrastructure from severe weather patterns. However such transition must be just. We need to construct more wind farms, more storage batteries, invest in electric cars, make buildings more energy efficient, offer incentives and tax breaks to those who switch to renewables, and also invest in research before we are stampeded by a fanatism that wants to stop what's working now for a future that remains under construction. Everyone has a role to play in reducing carbon emissions. From companies to households, wiser decisions can be made to use less carbon polluting substances and reduce the amount of energy usage. Companies, however, are profit driven. They exist to make money. They are not interested in being morally superior. The transition therefore from greenhouse gas-emitting resources to renewables has to make business sense in a meaningful way and governments may also offer some subsidies. There is a reason that despite these encouraging signs every elsewhere, there is only about 4% of companies that source their energy from renewables OUR REALITY According to South Africa's Integrated Resource Plan, more than 90% of South Africa's energy comes from coal. The plan is that by 2030, 15% of our electricity should come from wind power, another 11% from solar, 10% from hydro and 16% from gas, leaving 46% for coal. The aim is to be net-zero in carbon emission by 2050. The reality, however, is that huge coal power stations such as Medupi and Kusile are still under construction and will add another 1,000MW into the grid by 2030. There is just no way South Africa will meet both its 2030 and 2050 targets. It is also an inescapable reality that South Africa's coal industry employs more than 90 000 employees who will not be immediately employable at the rate of transition demanded by the tree-hugging extremists. Transition, therefore, must be properly planned and be just. South Africa must not allow itself to be a lamb that was slain for world leaders who are incapable to even convince their own parliament's to endorse even the modest of greenhouse emission targets. Our transition must match our reality. CLIMATE CHANGE IS ULTIMATELY AN INTERNATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY What environmentalists who are now harassing our ministers don't fully appreciate is that South Africa could take all the necessary measures to cab greenhouse gas emissions and even reach net zero emission. This, however, will not protect South Africa from devastating consequences of climate change if other countries are still emitting greenhouse gases. Climate change does not know where the borders of South Africa start and end. Climate change, therefore, must always be fought at an international level with a bigger push on large emitters. What a fanatic shift from coal to renewables by South Africa will do, while others are lacklustre, is to simply put South Africa at a competitive disadvantage. All late bloomers in development, China and India, have not been particularly excited about cutting their reliance on cheap energy sources such as coal while early developed countries had no such burdens. Since the earth summit in 1992 in Rio De Janiero, into the Kyoto protocol in Japan, up to Copenhagen and now Paris, there has been some measured willingness on America and Europe to set worlds standard to cut levels of emission but BRICS countries have refused the hypocrisy of the West whose development was underwritten by coal and oil drilling to now have moral superiority on the rest of the world. Unfortunately even in America there is a divide. Presidents such as Bush, who come from oil-rich states and those such as Trump who are funded by big business never want to entertain anything that would stifle business and make demands that would temporarily affect their profits in the name of climate change. Only Clinton and Obama have made any real commitments to international agenda on climate change even as they tussle with their own congresses for ratification. All world leaders, however, have always known that climate change is an international battle and until all countires commit equally to curb greenhouse emissions, no one is safe from severe flooding, drought, destruction of low-lying lands and other forms of destruction. WAY FORWARD Today and for the foreseeable future, coal remains the cheapest form of energy generation. Carbon-free technology remains highly expensive and with energy as a critical input cost in many industries, South Africa must tread carefully in its transition. We employ 90,000 people in the coal industry who cannot be uprooted and retrained now for jobs that  do not yet exist. A measured approach that starts with alternatives in reducing greenhouse mission, cap and trade, as well as carbon tax should be utilised a lot more before a drastic and irrational scaling down in coal and oil production harms our economy and puts us at a competitive disadvantage while other countries are actually starting new coal, oil and gas plants. More importantly, the fight for climate change must primarily be an international fight since climate change is borderless. No country should sacrifice all its immediate energy production towards renewables only to suffer the same fate as polluting countries because climate change did not distinguish them from high polluters. The time for a responsible, equitable and just transition is now.