CAPE TOWN - There's been a slight improvement in the country's struggling power system compared with Wednesday. But South Africans will have to endure rolling power cuts until 5am on Monday. A number of generating units broke down, leading to the first spell of blackouts for 2022. The utility's boss, Andre de Ruyter gave an update on Thursday morning on the country's power crisis. "At this point in time, our recovery is as anticipated, however, we have to point out that there is still the possibility that we may lose further units, therefore at this point in time our guidance remains that we maintain stage 2 load shedding until 5am on Monday morning," De Ruyter said. De Ruyter said that Eskom was currently sitting at a planned capacity outage of over 5,000 megawatts. "We have partial unplanned load losses of 5,183 and full load losses of 7,719 for a total of unplanned losses of 12,902 which is a slight improvement on where we were yesterday," the CEO explained. He said that water and diesel reserves were being replenished. "They are adequate for a Thursday morning. The way that we manage our dams is that on weekends when demand is lower, we replenish our dams. We will manage or dam levels over the weekend and replenish the upper dams, so that will give us on Monday morning the reserve capacity required from a pump storage perspective," De Ruyter said. De Ruyter said that they had managed to improve the stockholding of diesel at the utility's open cycle gas turbine plants at the Ankerlig and Gourikwa power stations. "Gourikwa is currently sitting at 84% and Ankerlig at 59%. You may recall that yesterday we were at 30% at Ankerlig and Ankerlig is of course a very important issue when it comes to giving us that reserve buffer capacity in the event that we have a major system upset," he said. De Ruyter said that overnight, they managed to gain some units but also lost some. "Matla 5 returned to service - so that's pleasing. For planned outages, we took out Camden unit 3 as well as Medupi unit 6. We had two trips - Tutuka 4 tripped and Arnot 2 had a forced shutdown," De Ruyter said.