KYIV - Ukrainian forces fought off Russian invaders in the streets of Kyiv on Friday as President Volodymyr Zelensky accused Moscow of targeting civilians and called for more international sanctions. Pre-dawn blasts in Kyiv set off a second day of violence after Russian President Vladimir Putin defied Western warnings to unleash a full-scale invasion on Thursday that quickly claimed dozens of lives and displaced at least 100,000 people. The United States and its allies responded with a barrage of sanctions, but the Russian forces looked to press home their advantage after a string of key strategic victories in their air and ground assault. "Horrific Russian rocket strikes on Kyiv," Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba posted on Twitter after the initial explosions were heard in the capital Friday morning. "Last time our capital experienced anything like this was in 1941 when it was attacked by Nazi Germany. Ukraine defeated that evil and will defeat this one." EXPLOSIONS AND SMALL ARMS FIRE In Obolonsky, a northern district of Kyiv, pedestrians ran for safety and small arms fire and explosions were heard. Russian forces first arrived on the outskirts of Kyiv on Thursday when helicopter-borne troops assaulted an airfield just outside the city, close to Obolonsky. The Ukrainian military said it had repulsed the attack on the Gostomel airbase, but Russian ground forces have also been pushing down the west bank of the Dnieper River from Belarus. As Russian forces arrived in Obolonsky, the Ukrainian defence ministry urged civilians to resist. "We urge citizens to inform us of troop movements, to make Molotov cocktails, and neutralise the enemy," it said. Ukraine says 137 people, including soldiers and civilians, have been killed since Russia attacked. "Ukrainians are demonstrating heroism," Zelensky said in a video message, accusing Russia of lying about striking only military targets and calling up conscripts and reservists nationwide. After speaking to EU chief Ursula von der Leyen he called for more sanctions, tweeting that "the pressure on Russia must increase". 'BETTER TO DIE' In the Ukrainian village of Starognativka near the frontline where separatists have faced off against Kyiv's forces for years, official Volodymyr Veselkin said on Friday missiles had been raining down all morning and the power was out. "They are trying to wipe the village off the face of the earth," he said. Olena Kurilo was among 20 people wounded by flying shards of glass following a blast in the eastern Ukrainian town of Chuguiv on Thursday. "Never, under any conditions will I submit to Putin. It is better to die," the 52-year-old teacher said, her face covered in bandages. The UN's refugee agency said late Thursday that some 100,000 were already displaced inside Ukraine, while thousands of others fled across the border. Streams of people in cars and on foot were seen crossing into Hungary, Poland and Romania on Thursday. Zelensky said there was now a "new iron curtain" between Russia and the rest of the world, adding later that his nation had been "left alone".