DURBAN - The Jacob Zuma Foundation on Wednesday said it would not simply accept Judge Piet Koen’s ruling to dismiss an application to appeal a judgement on prosecutor Billy Downer. The Pietermaritzburg High Court dismissed the latest bid by Zuma to remove state advocate Downer from his corruption case. Zuma’s lawyers previously argued that Downer would unfairly prosecute their client. Wednesday’s proceedings resumed with Judge Koen reading out the summary of his 60-page judgment. He dismissed Zuma’s application to appeal his October 2021 judgment to the Supreme Court. WATCH: Zuma's bid to remove prosecutor Downer from corruption case denied  And as previously argued by the State, Koen agreed that an appeal before the end of the trial would delay matters. "I then considered the State's arguments that an appeal against the dismissal of the special plea at this stage of the trial prior to conviction would not be competent," Judge Koen said. The foundation said it anticipated that the former president’s application to appeal the judgement would be dismissed. However, it said it would not go down without a fight in the matter, adding that Zuma should challenge the decision. Spokesperson Mzwanele Manyi said: “We’re not surprised but what we’re not going to do is to give into this travesty of justice. As the foundation, we will be advising President Zuma to appeal this.” Koen suggested that the matter continues for trial and that an appeal at this stage would be a delay. But Manyi said they would not accept this. Regardless, the trial is now set for April. Meanwhile, the National Prosecuting Authority said it hoped Wednesday's ruling would be respected to avoid another delay of the trial. The NPA said it wanted the trial to get under way and that it was ready. It said any attempts to challenge the court outcome would affect the trial. BACKGROUND Zuma faces 16 counts of fraud, graft and racketeering related to the purchase of fighter jets, patrol boats and equipment from five European arms firms. He is accused of taking bribes from French defence giant Thales, which has also been charged with corruption and money laundering. Both have denied any wrongdoing. The trial started in May 2021 after repeated postponements as Zuma's legal team battled to have the charges dropped. Zuma was president from 2009 to 2018, but was forced to step down by the governing African National Congress as graft scandals surrounding his government brewed into a political storm. Last year, he was given a 15-month jail sentence for contempt of court after refusing to testify before a panel probing financial sleaze and cronyism that proliferated under his Presidency. His jailing sparked riots that descended into looting and left more than 350 dead in the worst violence since the advent of South Africa's democracy. He was released on health grounds two months into the term. Additional reporting by AFP.