JOHANNESBURG - South African motorists have been warned to brace themselves for another blow to their already bruised wallets - another petrol price hike that is poised to set a record and not a good one. Motorists have been warned to brace themselves for another blow to their already bruised wallets because another petrol price hike is on its way. In a statement released on the back of fuel price data by the Central Energy Fund (CEF), the Automobile Association (AA) warned that “massive” fuel hikes above R1 per litre for all grades of fuel was predicted for March. An analysis of fluctuations in petrol prices showed that international petrol prices were responsible for most of the pricing uncertainty and the rand buffering what would’ve been an even higher amount. JUST HOW HIGH IS HIGH? The AA said, given the CEF forecast, petrol prices would soar above R21 for the first time with 95 octane petrol in Gauteng costing around R21.39 per litre and 93 octane petrol costing R21.13 per litre. The coastal price of 95 octane would cost R20.67 per litre while diesel and paraffin would reach unseen levels. The price of 95 octane petrol inland would rise to R21.39, a 31% increase while the cost of diesel could rise to R19.33 in 2022, a 37% hike. PARAFIN IS THE BIGGEST CASUALTY The biggest gut punch was anticipated for paraffin, a fuel used by many for heating, cooking and lighting. In March 2021, paraffin stood at R8.45 per litre while in March 2022 it could reach R13.19 per litre, representing a staggering 56% increase year-on-year. REVIEW OF FUEL PRICES Although the expected increases were significant, economist Dawie Roodt affirmed that they were in line with current economic data. “These increases aren’t unexpected, and they are supported by the numbers, especially those related to international oil prices,” he said. The organisation said increases would put further pressure on already stretched South Africans, repeating the call for a review of fuel prices. “We again call on the Minister of Finance to strongly consider calls not to increase the General Fuel and Road Accident Fund levies in his Budget Speech next week. Any relief, even in the form of non-increases, would be welcome to a consumer base already reeling from economic hardship.” Explainer: Fuel prices are officially calculated and adjusted on the first Wednesday of every month by the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy. The Department is the only entity which regulates, sets, and adjusts fuel prices in South Africa.  PARAFIN IS THE BIGGEST CASUALTY The biggest gut punch was anticipated for paraffin, a fuel used by many for heating, cooking and lighting. In March 2021, paraffin stood at R8.45 per litre while in March 2022 it could reach R13.19 per litre, representing a staggering 56% increase year-on-year. REVIEW OF FUEL PRICES Although the expected increases were significant, economist Dawie Roodt affirmed that they were in line with current economic data. “These increases aren’t unexpected, and they are supported by the numbers, especially those related to international oil prices,” he said. The organisation said increases would put further pressure on already stretched South Africans, repeating the call for a review of fuel prices. “We again call on the Minister of Finance to strongly consider calls not to increase the General Fuel and Road Accident Fund levies in his Budget Speech next week. Any relief, even in the form of non-increases, would be welcome to a consumer base already reeling from economic hardship.”