JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to attend the mass funeral of the 21 teenagers who died at Enyobeni Tavern over a week ago. The Presidency made the announcement on Monday. It said the first citizen would join Eastern Cape premier Oscar Mabuyane to comfort the grieving families of the deceased in Scenery Park on Wednesday. This comes after authorities in the Eastern Cape held a private meeting with the parents of the young people. This while the deputy mayor of Buffalo City Municipality and the liquor board conducted site inspections in taverns across the township to ensure that owners were complying with regulations and laws. BCM deputy mayor Princess Faku is visiting 19 taverns in Scenery Park. All of this awareness done following the deaths of young people in #EnyobeniTavern funeral is expected on Wednesday #ewn pic.twitter.com/P6VC8SGumP  Eastern Cape liquor authorities and BCM officials are conducting inspections at several taverns in Scenery Park. 21 young people died in #EnyobeniTavern last weekend. #ewn pic.twitter.com/oMAZBXxLB8  A week after the tragic deaths of 21 young people. Tomorrow the ANC Youth league and other organisations will be hosting a candlelight ceremony in remembrance of those who lost their lives. Regular updates on @ewnreporter #EnyobeniTavern #enyobeni pic.twitter.com/kHVIpJ7PuS  Deputy mayor Princess Faku met with liquor board authorities to conduct site inspections in at least 19 taverns in Scenery Park. Faku said they would have zero-tolerance against traders who chose to break liquor laws and placed innocent lives in danger: “What is important now is that lessons have to be learnt, and what we are getting from the parents is that we need to save more lives. They are saying that this is our responsibility as communities.” But some residents said that clamping down on unscrupulous tavern owners was long overdue and stricter laws had to be implemented. The mass funeral service of the teenagers who lost their lives is expected to take place in Scenery Park on Wednesday.