VOORSTEKRAAL - Community members of Voorstekraal and Genadendal say more and more drug dealers are setting up shop in their communities. Members say that there’s been an increase in drug dealing and they see it every day. Scared community members told Eyewitness News that they need help. The community of Voorstekraal says that what once was a crime-free area has now seen an increase in crime. #MandelaDay #67minutes local PR Counclillor and members of the community in Voorstekraal in the Overberg district is rebuilding and painting a house. The house was damaged in a recent fire. GLS pic.twitter.com/pW05xXvMpm  This citizen did not want to be named out of the fear of her life. "Well the problem in our community is, I think, it’s unemployment. Lately, the crime rate has risen. The police are actually trying their best to assist, but I think we should get more people should help us with this," she said. She said that more and more teenagers were using drugs. "Some of them come from outside of our areas and they start their little things," the community member said. While they thank police in the area for their assistance, there are calls for more boots on the ground. LIVING IN FEAR The Greyton and Voorstekraal communities have pleaded with the provincial Community Safety Department to make funds available for their local neighbourhood watch to protect them and the place they call home. Drugs are one of many socio-economic problems in the Overberg. Former members of the Voorstekraal neighbourhood watch said that they lived in fear. This man doesn’t want to be named to protect his family. "I think the biggest problem is [that] there is no social development going on here to keep our kids busy. The drug problem is that our youth is actually making their way to that problem. They're using that drug problem just to get rid of the situation they found themselves in," he said. He said that the community needed assistance. "I think if we can get to the point where we can just assist our community with more visibility of policing, putting finance in the neighbourhood watch, that would be the first start of making a big difference in the young people’s lives," he said. The community said that it would rally together and do everything possible to keep their community safe.