JOHANNESBURG - Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola has come to the defence of President Cyril Ramaphosa, saying he was being falsely accused of using the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) to deal with his enemies. Lamola was speaking at the 25th commemoration of the establishment of the SIU. He told a packed gathering in Boksburg on Thursday that the executive will not be deterred by such accusations. Lamola said it was a means of deflecting from the work the president was doing to deal with corruption in the country. Amid our challenges, institutions like the @RSASIU bring hope to our people. They make our resolve to fight and eliminate corruption practical. Nelson Mandela: Our hope for the future depends also on our resolution as a nation in dealing with the scourge of corruption. #SIU25 pic.twitter.com/rq9D9T4MFa  Min @RonaldLamola says that We cannot reach our full potential as a country as long corruption exits. #SIU25 pic.twitter.com/VGQqeanmcv  Lamola said the SIU was one of government’s success stories having been set up by the country’s first democratically elected president, Nelson Mandela, in 1997. “The corrupt have been dealt with accordingly, arrested, prosecuted and sentenced. Monies have been recovered.” He said the SIU had evolved rapidly in recent years under the leadership of Ramaphosa: “I must use this opportunity to state that the president does not use the SIU as a hired gun. The SIU follows evidence.” Lamola said government would continue to support the SIU to ensure that it does its work without fear of prejudice. SIU HELPING GOVT ROOT OUT CORRUPTION Lamola has painted a glowing picture about the Special Investigating Unit, saying it was helping government to root out corrupt elements within its ranks. He said the SIU helped the country recover billions of rands after exposing corrupt tenders and this was highlighted in recent investigations linked to PPE procurement. “As we speak, the SIU has enrolled for 48 matters worth R2.2 billion related to COVID-19 procurement corruption and maladministration at the Special Tribunal.” SIU head Andy Mothibi said since its inception, the unit had exposed malfeasance resulting in tenders amounting R20 billion to be declared invalid. He said they had also prevented financial losses amounting R21 billion. Mothibi said between 2018 and 2021, the SIU managed to secure close to 57,000 acknowledgements of debt agreements, after uncovering misconduct during government contract procurements.