PIETERMARITZBURG - The long-awaited case of slain African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) secretary general Sindiso Magaqa has been postponed due issues linked with two of the accused in the matter. The fourth accused, Sibusiso Ncalane, was not in court on Monday due to miscommunication related to his transportation from a Kokstad prison to Pietermaritzburg. While accused number three, Mlungisi Ncalane, will undergo psychiatric evaluation. Their lawyer, who is also representing accused number one, asked for the matter to be postponed to Tuesday. The four men accused of Magaqa’s murder also face charges of conspiracy to commit murder and attempted murder. Magaqa was shot in 2017 in his hometown of uMzimkhulu in KwaZulu-Natal and later died in hospital. [IN PICTURES] Three of the four suspects accused of killing #SindisoMagaqa, Mbulelo Mpofana, Sibonelo Myeza, Mlungisi Ncalane are present in court, but it appears that the fourth accused Sibusiso Ncengwa, is not in court due to some miscommunication. #MagaqaTrial @ewnreporter pic.twitter.com/iguIGl2WNo  On Monday morning, Judge Kate Pillay questioned the absence of accused number four in court. State prosecutor Lawrence Gcabashe told the court there was miscommunication with transporting him to Pietermaritzburg from Kokstad. His lawyer, advocate Shane Matthews, told the court the proceedings had to be adjourned until Tuesday so that he could be present in court. However, he also dropped a bombshell and said accused number three - who is still out on bail- needs to undergo a mental evaluation. Pillay agreed to both of Matthews’ requests. Accused number three will on Monday go for psychiatric evaluation while number four will be transported to Pietermaritzburg to stand trial. The matter will continue on Tuesday morning. MAGAQA’S FRIEND CLAIMS DELAYING TACTICS Magaqa's comrade and friend, Thabiso Zulu, has claimed that delaying tactics are being used to protect the masterminds behind his friend's killing. Zulu said the four men accused of Magaqa's murder were just foot soldiers, claiming that there were those who ordered the hit. Zulu also claims that Magaqa was killed because he wanted to expose corruption in uMzimkhulu. He believes the accused in the matter are not the actual ones who planned to kill Magaqa. “All we are seeing now are these four accused, the middleman and the foot soldiers. The masterminds, political gangsters that made the whole thing to happen, that paid money, that procured the cars that were used are not here.” He also believes the postponements this case has seen are tactics to protect certain people: “But their shadows will loom large on the dock because their names will keep on being mentioned, that is why they are trying to postpone this case time and again, so that the names of those political gangsters are not going to be revealed.” Zulu said he was confident that the truth of who killed Magaqa would eventually come out.