JOHANNESBURG - Delegates arrived at the Cape Town Convention Centre where the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) hoped to commence with its 11th National Congress on Wednesday morning. However, it remained to be seen whether this renewed attempt to constitute the highest decision-making structure of the union would succeed as it also faced a threat of being interdicted again. Numsa was interdicted from proceeding with the elective congress after members who were suspended successfully challenged the decision of the Central Committee to do so at the Johannesburg Labour Court. Different factions of the country’s largest trade union sang as they anticipated the start of the congress. However, their songs clearly demonstrated the divisions with some warning that “your day will come” as they carried placards indicating that they were pushing for the removal of the incumbent leadership - which was standing to be re-elected. Others were singing that Irvin Jim and Andrew Chirwa were coming back. Eyewitness News was informed that the faction, which believed that the congress did not meet muster of the law, was on “standby” to apply for an interdict in a bid to see a fresh sitting at the Labour Court. They argued that there was no six months’ notice before the gathering took place as provisioned for in the union’s constitution, among other issues. #NumsaCongress Delegates from Gauteng arrive at the Cape Town International Convention Centre where the union hopes to start its delayed congress. But whether this renewed attempt at convening the highest decision making body of the union will succeed remains to be seen. TTM pic.twitter.com/XeVK2oFUGU  Some regions of the union indicated to Eyewitness News that they are on stand-by to approach the labour court on an urgent basis to block the gathering taking place citing its failure to comply with the constitution of the union. NUMSA is a key player in the countrys economy. pic.twitter.com/vN8c98SNHt  The union represents workers in critical sectors such as manufacturing and energy. It also has a multi-billion rand NUMSA Investment Company which has major stakes in insurance, funeral and property businesses. TTM  The unions congress was scheduled to start on Monday, but a faction which had been suspended in the lead up to the event successfully applied for a court interdict raising issues with the constitutional non-compliance of the congress. #Numsa  #NumsaCongress The faction that was excluded from the initial congress wants to contest elections, with an attempt to unseat the current leadership including General Secretary Irvin Jim. They said their suspensions, which have now been lifted was a purge meant to crush democracy.  Now, as we sit in the conference hall the bubbling tensions can be felt as anxiety among leaders reigns on whether this fresh congress will not be stopped in its tracks by the labour court. #Numsa has already filed an appeal of the earlier judgment citing factual errors in it.  #NumsaCongress Delegates sing emini iyeza nakuwe, siyabathandazela  in decoding the song, an interpretation could be made that they mean [your day will come] to the faction they are opposed to. TTM pic.twitter.com/MNlnK4SCKP  #WATCH More delegates arrive at the #NUMSA 11TH National Congress with the programme expected to start shortly at the CTICC. pic.twitter.com/dSQjqyq516  Plenty of euphoria ahead of the National Congress. There are different groups chanting songs #NUMSA #numsacongress pic.twitter.com/ANVJ4PrwPi  #NumsaCongress is officially under way. #Numsa pic.twitter.com/0MJziFxfBv 