JOHANNESBURG - Police Minister Bheki Cele has told the community of Nomzamo Park, in Soweto that investigators found over 130 spent cartridges from high-calibre weapons at the scene of a mass shooting that took place at Mdlalose’s Tavern on Sunday. Twelve people were declared dead on the scene and three others succumbed to their injuries in hospital after gunmen opened fire on the crowd inside the establishment. Cele was at a community meeting with Nomzamo residents following the attack on Monday. Police Minister Bheki Cele is in Nomzamo Park following the weekend mass shooting at #NomzamoTavern, KaMdlalose, where 15 people were killed by unknown gunmen in the early hours of Sunday morning. MS pic.twitter.com/MPMCeAiFf7  Cele told residents that it was clear the gunmen behind the Soweto tavern attack had the clear intention to kill. “Investigators picked up close to 137 empty cartridges from an AK, but at least now we know that there were five people who were in the kombi.” Cele has promised to deploy specialised police, including members of the tactical response team and the public order police to the area as well as making additional resources available to increase police visibility. “The police commissioner is here; I heard someone say there’s only one van that patrols here, the commissioner says he will give five new vehicles for this place.” Community members complained of poor policing and the absence of electricity - which left people vulnerable to crime. NO EVIDENCE ATTACKS COORDINATED Cele said there was no evidence the weekend attacks at three taverns in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal were coordinated. Cele was speaking to residents of Nomzamo Park in Orlando East in Soweto where 15 people were killed in a mass shooting incident at the Emazulwini Tavern on Sunday. In addition to the Soweto victims, two other people were killed in Katlehong, east of Johannesburg on Friday night, while four others were murdered at the Sweetwaters Tavern in Pietermaritzburg on Saturday. The minister said at this point, the attacks appeared to be coincidental: “There is that thinking that it could be a coordinated weekend. We don’t have that information as the police that this was coordinated.” Cele has also thwarted talk of the massacres being acts of terrorism: “We don’t believe it’s terrorism; it is a criminality that is brutal, it is a criminality that is violent. Terrorism is a very high level of criminality.”