JOHANNESBURG - Head of the NPA Shamila Batohi said the extradition process for the Gupta brothers from the United Arab Emirates "could take several months". Batohi and Justice and Correctional Services Minister, Ronald Lamola,  on Monday provided an update on the extradition of the Gupta brothers from the UAE. Atul and Rajesh Gupta were arrested in Dubai last month after an Interpol red notice was issued for the brothers who are wanted for corruption, fraud and money laundering charges. Batohi said the submission of the application was in progress: “The submission of the formal application request for the arrest and extradition of the Gupta brothers is an important milestone in the NPA’s commitment to hold accountable perpetrators of state capture and to uphold the rule of law. It reaffirms our resolve to be the lawyers for the people and to seek collective justice for our country.” She said they would try to ensure that justice would be served. “We cannot guarantee of course that there will be a conviction, but what we can guarantee is that as the prosecuting authority we will do everything possible to ensure that the prospects of a successful prosecution and conviction is extremely high, that’s as far as we can take it.” Minister Lamola added that: “The revision of request has been duly submitted to the United Arab Emirates central authority today, and we can also confirm that this is within the 60 days period within which the Republic of South Africa was expected to submit the request in terms of the treaty.” Charges against Rajesh and Atul Gupta relate to a R24.9 million tender that was issued by the Free State Department of Agriculture to a company called Nulane Investments 204 between November 2011 and April 2012. The company was owned by Gupta-linked businessman and former Transnet board member Iqbal Sharma. It is alleged that Sharma subcontracted Deloitte for a feasibility study at the cost of R1.5 million and the rest of the funds were then distributed to Gupta-owned companies through a money-laundering scheme. Sharma is currently behind bars after being denied bail due to being considered a ‘great flight risk’. The case is set for trial from 23 January until 3 march 2023. They were also providing an update on the extradition of Shepherd Bushiri and his wife Mary from Malawi. Lamola said the Czech Republic was also seeking the extradition of convicted underworld figure Radovan Krejcir.