DURBAN - President Cyril Ramaphosa’s inner circle pressured him to face the hostile crowd at the ANC KwaZulu Natal 9th provincial conference, on Sunday evening. There was uncertainty, for the most part  of the day, as to whether Ramaphosa would attend the 9th provincial conference - with those close to him saying that it was Treasurer General Paul Mashatile, who is said to have advised the president against going. Eyewitness News can now reveal that from the moment “Wenzeni u’Zuma (what has Zuma done),” was sung by delegates at the conference before Mashatile took to the podium on Friday, Ramaphosa’s loyal lieutenants, often referred to as the “Chris Hani cabal,”  had concluded that he had no choice but to push ahead with his appearance.This view is said to have been opposed by the Mashatile and also ANC NEC convenor for KZN, Nocawe Mafu, who is said to have advised the party’s president against attending the event. “There will be no no-go areas for a president, we told him… it’s been a tough battle, but he has to show face, he should never listen to those people who wanted to set him up (by advising him not to go),” said an NEC  member close to Ramaphosa. The “Chris Hani cabal,” which Eyewitness News has previously reported on, is made up of three key senior players in the governing party, ministers Enoch Gondogwana of Finance, Gwede Mantashe of Energy and minister in the presidency Mondli Gungubele -  who all hail from the AN’s Chris Hani region in the Eastern Cape. While they too have their own tensions to manage, the grouping used its proximity and influence over the president to convince him to make his way to KZN on Sunday. News that Ramaphosa would indeed show face spread throughout Sunday afternoon as members of the presidential protection services manned exits and entrances to the venue. Delegates started booing and singing “Wenzeni Zuma?” (What has Zuma done?) when Ramaphosa took to the stage. Gungubele, who also oversees state security, arrived at the Olive Conference Centre ahead of the president’s arrival, to manage the situation on the ground. One NEC member told Eyewitness News that they were worried as the situation had become unfavourable for the ANC president, Earlier newly elected chairperson Siboniso Duma told journalists that Ramaphosa had called to congratulate him and also inform the new leadership and engagements commitments that the president had to honour. Ramaphosa confirmed this when he eventually addressed the restless delegates. Duma also showed his mettle, when he took to the podium to calm down the delegates - insisting they give Ramaphosa a hearing, despite their own disgruntlement over the perceived perception of Zuma. KZN is the ANC’s largest province but did not support Ramaphosa in the 2017 congress. This did not stop Ramaphosa from successfully defeating Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, who was KZN’s preferred candidate. Ramaphosa is said to have been receptive to advice cautioning him against appearing before a province said to be hostile towards him; however, the ANC leader was well received by the newly elected ANC KZN leadership.Ramaphosa lauded the province for organising a smooth conference. Duma closed the conference late into the evening. WATCH: Ramaphosa addresses ANC KZN elective conference after being booed by delegates 