DURBAN - The African National Congress (ANC) in KwaZulu-Natal said it’s all systems go for its provincial conference, however, with delegates still registering a late start seems on the cards. Its ninth conference was expected to formally kick off at 10 am on Friday, but there's been little activity at the venue with delegates still queuing up to register. Around 1,600 delegates are expected to descend at the Olive Convention Centre in Durban to elect new leadership for the party's biggest province. #ANCKZN ANC headquarters sending another massive delegation of its NEC to help their deployees. 10 members being brought in as reinforcements.TLM pic.twitter.com/X8rv3fIZwF  While all preparation seems to be in place including security, the Olive Convention Centre remains empty with delegates still at the nearby People’s Park. Provincial spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela said registration has adversely affected the day’s programme: “Seemingly the delegates were delayed where they were sleeping. We are waiting for the delegates to collect their tags and go to the conference centre.” This is also due to last-minute horse trading that is currently underway at numerous hotels in and around the city centre. Ntombela said the ANC has done its bit and can start at any moment: “On our systems all are ready, they are on track. The national leadership has also arrived, NEC deployees have arrived.” The party’s treasurer general Paul Mashatile is expected to open the conference. CALLS TO ALIGN WITH ANC ETHOS As the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal continues waiting for all its delegates to arrive, some of the outgoing provincial executive committee members say a true reflection of the province and its role in the governing party is necessary. Delegates have been bogged down in deliberations over leadership positions, this as more than five slates vie for support to take the province forward. KZN was the biggest loser at ANC 2017 conference. This was blamed on divisions and arrogance attached to it being the party’s biggest province. Leaders like Nhlakanipho Ntombela, a provincial executive committee member and spokesperson, believe this remains unchanged. “How do you handle the enigma of always thinking of yourself as a super province whenever you engage on matters of national discourse.” Ntombela said the ANC in KZN must align itself with the ethos of the organisation, including its approach to renewal: “It says something about the province; that we still don’t understand the values and ethos of the organisation.” Some of the newly elected regional leaders have called for the step aside resolution to be reviewed claiming it was used to target political opponents.