CAPE TOWN - Numsa general secretary Irvin Jim has lashed out at individuals in the union who he said had brought the organisation into disrepute, challenging them to run to the courts if they wanted to. This as the leaders battle to diffuse tensions ,which came to a head at the gathering that has been delayed amid a myriad of challenges on Wednesday in Cape Town. Throwing down the gauntlet, Jim insisted that the congress was constituted constitutionally, warning that it cannot be collapsed by a minority group in the union. The faction challenging the congress wants Jim and other incumbent leaders in the union to be replaced as they accuse them of ruling with an iron fist, suppressing democracy and of looting the organisation’s funds. Numsa’s 11th national congress was disrupted on several occasions despite the national office bearers trying to quash the dissent. The Western Cape and Ekurhuleni regions argued that the congress is in contempt of court. Last week, the Labour Court deemed it as invalid and noncompliant with the rules of Numsa after the union had suspended several of its members who took them to court. But Jim said the union was not breaking the law. Numsa said it also faced pressure from the Department of Labour as the union could be sanctioned by the Labour Registrar if the congress didn't take place to elect new leaders. The last Numsa congress took place in 2016 with unions required to hold these gatherings at least every four years. #NumsaCongress As the congress resumes, Numsa President Andrew Chirwa is addressing delegates. He questions the motives of the faction contesting the gathering, saying going to the labour court on an urgent basis costs about R100 000 he asks where are they getting the money?  JUST IN: #NumsaCongress Numsa members whose suspension was declared invalid by the labour court say the union has not LIFTED their suspension. They say none of the 53 suspended or banned leaders received a letter lifting their suspension in terms of the judgment. TTM pic.twitter.com/NYFkMTfM4c  #NumsaCongress Numsa member says they walked out because they must defend the unions constitution from corruption. pic.twitter.com/cu8wIzKZ59  LABOUR COURT TO HEAR ARGUMENTS The Labour Court in Johannesburg will on Wednesday night hear oral arguments from the two warring factions of Numsa over the union’s appeal application. Numsa is contesting the Labour Court decision that stopped its congress from going ahead until several constitutional obligations are met. This, as the congress continues in Cape Town where the deep divisions in the country’s largest union are on full display. In a letter sent to Numsa and the faction opposed to the convening of the congress, Judge Graham Moshoana’s office calls on the two sides to submit written submissions by 6 pm. But some of the individuals involved have now told Eyewitness News that their lawyers received word from the court that they should prepare to present oral arguments for a virtual hearing. Time is of essence in the dispute as Numsa continued with the congress despite the interdict after declaring that they have met the constitutional requirements as flagged by Moshoana in last week’s judgment. Meanwhile, the group that was suspended by the union and successfully challenged this in the court said Numsa had still not abided by the order issued by Moshoana. They claim that none of the 53 local and regional leaders of the union who were suspended have been reinstated by the union. As such, they contend that the union’s congress is being held unlawfully. Earlier, Eyewitness News reported that the group has sent Numsa a letter of demand requiring minutes of the meetings that concluded that the congress must go ahead. CHIRWA QUESTIONS MOTIVES OF COURT BID Numsa president Andrew Chirwa has questioned the true motives of a union faction that is challenging the convening of the congress. He told delegates on Wednesday afternoon that approaching the Labour Court on an urgent basis could cost up to R100,000 in legal fees, saying he wondered who was funding the faction. Chirwa has berated the divisive factions in the union, saying they had derailed the mission of the congress. He said the trade union should be seized with the many crises that face the working class in South Africa and the world over but were instead fighting amongst each other. Chirwa said the challenge of infighting could perhaps be due to a lack of education in the union among its new recruits. “When we say we must fight, we don’t mean [internally], we must fight against the enemy. The enemy is not here.” Numsa has been struggling to rid itself of divisions for over a decade as members complain about a lack of transparency in how the union’s finances are being handled. Even the Labour Registrar has written to the union warning it could face deregistration if it does not submit its audited financial statements for the period 2018 to 2020. They also have not submitted agency fee audits since 2017.