JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaposa said mining communities needs must be looked after and the private sector and government should work together to ensure workers’ rights were a priority. Ramaphosa was speaking at the Annual Mining Indaba at the Cape Town Convention Centre on Tuesday. Hundreds of mining industry leaders from across the world and government officials are gathered at the indaba, which is organised to showcase the continent’s potential in the sector. This year's theme is 'an evolution of African mining: investing in the energy transition, and the economies.' As the government of South Africa, we are firmly committed to fulfil our responsibilities and to remove all impediments to the growth, sustainability and prosperity of the mining industry.President @CyrilRamaphosa #MiningIndaba #MI2022 #InvestSA  pic.twitter.com/eZe2lNjc8w  The future of mining on the African continent holds great promise. It holds great promise for investment, for industrial development and for growth.President @CyrilRamaphosa #MiningIndaba #MI2022 #InvestSA  pic.twitter.com/0VjsXSiAj0  Ramaphosa said the growth and development of mining in the country would not be possible unless the working and living conditions of mineworkers and mining communities were improved. “We now have a responsibility - all of us as the public sector, government and private sector - to ensure that we have benefits for those who are involved in the ecosystem of mining.” Ramaphosa has called on all parties to contribute to the growth of the mining sector: “Gone are the days when corporates ignore what is happening to their workers in terms of their livelihoods and gone are the days when we ignore what is happening in communities in mining areas.” HIT ALL THE RIGHT NOTES Ramaphosa’s address to delegates at the African Mining Indaba hit all the right notes for the cooperation of private and public sectors in improving industry competitiveness and for raising investment. This is according to the Minerals Council, which was responding to Ramaphosa’s speech that focused on the government’s commitment to removing obstacles blocking growth. While industry experts have been critical of inputs by government officials since the conference started on Monday, indicating that there was no detailed or thorough explanation of plans announced, Ramaphosa appears to have appeased the industry locally. The Minerals Council said Ramaphosa’s speech was constructive and realistic. The council’s Roger Baxter added that they would continue discussions with the government on the improvement of energy security and the restoration of Transnet’s capacity. Ramaphosa told delegates that the government understood the need to significantly improve the functioning of ports and railways, which he described as important to ensuring a secure and reliable supply of affordable electricity. He also said the recent Fraser Institute’s survey, which showed South Africa had fallen to the bottom 10 of the investment attractiveness index - the worst ever for the country, implored SA to move with greater purpose and urgency. Additional reporting by Theto Mahlakoana.