JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa said South Africa looked forward to deepening investment ties with Germany. Ramaphosa was speaking during his opening remarks at the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Tuesday afternoon while welcoming German chancellor Olaf Scholz. This is Scholz's first visit to South Africa since taking office last December. Germany is South Africas second largest trading partner. SA is home to around 600 German companies.Media briefing remarks by President @CyrilRamaphosa during the Germany Official Visit, Union Buildings, Tshwane. https://t.co/Spe02N2g2v#GermanyInSA#BetterAfricaBetterWorld pic.twitter.com/3wD3e3VZJ2  [PHOTOS]: Members of the German and South African delegations participate in Official Talks during Germanys official visit to South Africa. The Heads of State & Government will exchange views on issues of bilateral and international concern, pic.twitter.com/y0A2UUAt8H  [PHOTOS]: Tte--tte between Chancellor Scholz and President Ramaphosa. The visit by Chancellor Olaf Scholz is significant due to the strategic nature of South Africas relationship with Germany. #GermanyInSA #BetterAfricaBetterWorld  pic.twitter.com/AyCoQYwk4P  The president said government anticipated progress around the green economy. “This is a path-breaking initiative to support South Africa’s pathway to a low carbon economy and climate resilience in society to accelerate the just transition and decarbonisation of the electricity system and to support the development of new economic opportunities.” The two leaders will make their way to Sasol in Sandton later on Tuesday for the launch of a South African-German consortium to assist the advance technology research for production of sustainable aviation fuels. COMMITMENT TOWARDS SKILLS DEVELOPMENT South Africa and Germany have committed towards skills development and training for young people in the country in the fight against unemployment. Ramaphosa said the expansion of education and skills training was another area of focus for the relationship between the two countries. Germany is South Africa’s second largest trading partner and in tourism the third-largest single source of overseas arrivals. Ramaphosa said there was so much South African could learn from Germany’s model of dual education and how they integrated young people in companies. “We look forward to discussions of how we can work together with Germany to advance our efforts towards important interventions, reindustrialising our country, how we can advance infrastructure development as well as job creation.” Scholz has agreed with Ramaphosa on youth empowerment: “I agree that it is necessary to do a lot for young people and that they have a chance for training and education to progress.”